# Lab Answer Key:  Module 6: SharePoint and OneDrive for Business hybrid deployment
# Lab: Implement SharePoint and OneDrive for Business in a hybrid configuration
  
## Exercise 1: Design and prepare SharePoint Server for a hybrid configuration
  
#### Task 1: Design a hybrid solution
  

1. Read the exercise scenario.
2. Using the information provided in the earlier planning topics, answer the following questions:

  - **What hybrid search configuration do you require to support the pilot scenario?**

  You require a cloud hybrid search to support the scenario. Hybrid federated search in SharePoint Online would require a reverse proxy device to enable an inbound connection from SharePoint Online to on-premises SharePoint Server.

  - **What Office 365 or SharePoint Online subscriptions will not support the pilot scenario?**

  The Office 365 Enterprise E1 subscription will not support the pilot scenario. The E1 subscription only supports hybrid federated search in SharePoint Server. It does not support cloud hybrid search, which is required to meet the search requirements.

  - **What SharePoint hybrid feature set supports the pilot scenario?**

  The Hybrid Sites feature set will support the pilot scenario. In addition to hybrid sites, this feature set includes hybrid OneDrive for Business.

  - **What SharePoint Server 2016 version can you use in the pilot scenario?**

  Because the pilot project does not require configuration of hybrid auditing, taxonomy, or content types, you can use the RTM release. Hybrid content types would require the June 2017 Public Update. The other features would require the November 2016 Public Update.

  - **What services do you need to configure in the on-premises SharePoint Server farm, and how can you verify configuration?**

  - The on-premises SharePoint Server farm must have the following services configured:

    - **Managed Metadata**
    - **My Site**
    - **User Profile**

  The simplest way to determine if these services are configured is to open your on-premises SharePoint site with a user account that has not accessed it before, and then select the **My site** link. If the services, including self-service site creation, are properly configured, a new **My Site** will be created. The **My Site** services depend on both **Managed Metadata** and **User Profiles**, so those must be configured correctly for **My Sites** to work.


#### Task 2: Verify prerequisites for hybrid scenario
  
Review the earlier topics, identify the prerequisites for each scenario, and answer the following questions:

- What prerequisites do hybrid sites have? Hybrid sites have only the same basic prerequisites as all hybrid SharePoint features.
- What prerequisites does hybrid OneDrive for Business have? Hybrid OneDrive for Business requires the **User Profile** service. You should also educate your users about the change in experience.
- What prerequisites does hybrid cloud search have? Cloud hybrid search requires the creation of the following accounts: 
  - Search account for cloud hybrid search
  - Managed account for default content access with at least read access

- How can you verify the configuration of Managed Metadata, My Site, and Users Profile services in SharePoint Server? 

  You can verify the configuration of these services by verifying that the My Site service is configured, because it depends on the other two. To do so, perform the following steps: 

  1. On **LON-CL1**, in **Microsoft Edge**, go to **http://sharepoint.adatum.com**.
  2. Sign in with the following credentials:
    - Username: **Beth**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
    - Domain: **Adatum**

  3. Select your user name, then select **About Me**.
  4. Sign in with the following credentials:
    - Username: **Beth**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
    - Domain: **Adatum**

  5. Verify the **About Beth Burke** page appears.


#### Task 3: Prepare on-premises and cloud infrastructure for hybrid scenario

**Install online service management tools**

1. On **LON-SP1**, sign in by using the following credentials:
  - Username: **Administrator**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
  - Domain: **Adatum**

2. Open **Explorer** on the taskbar and navigate to **\\LON-CL1\C$\Labfiles\Mod05\**. 2. Double click on the **msoidcl1_64bit.msi** file.
4. Select **Next**.
5. When prompted, select **Allow once** and when next prompted, select **Run**.
6. Select **I accept the terms in the License Agreement and Privacy Statement** and select **Install**.
7. Select **Finish**.
8. In **Internet Explorer**, navigate to **https://aka.ms/AA21ej5**.
9. Select **Download**, select the file name that ends with **x64_en-us.msi**, then select **Next**.
10. When prompted, select **Allow Once**, and when next prompted, select **Run**.
11. Select **I accept the terms in the License Agreement** and then select **Install**.
12. Select **Finish** and restart LON-SP1 and sign back in.
13. On the Start menu, right click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, select **more,** and select **Run as Administrator**.
14. Copy the following commands into the script pane and select **Run Script**:

    ```
    Install-Module -Name MSOnline 
    ```

    ```
    Add-PSSnapin Microsoft.SharePoint.PowerShell
    ```

    ```
    Import-Module Microsoft.PowerShell.Utility
    ```

    ```
    Import-Module MSOnline -force
    ```

    > **Note:** If prompted to install a Nu Get package, confirm the installation, including confirming installation from an untrusted source.

15. In the Windows PowerShell ISE command prompt, type **connect-msolservice**, and then press ENTER.
16. Enter the user name **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** and the password you created in Module 1.


**Configure server-to-server authentication**

1. Navigate to **C:\\labfiles\\mod06\\** and then open **s2s.txt** in Notepad.
2. Replace the contents of the Windows PowerShell ISE script pane with the contents of **s2s.txt**.
3. In the Windows PowerShell script pane, replace the text **<public\_root\_domain\_name\>.com**  with the value provided in the lab interface (for example, xtremelabs.us).
4. Select **Run Script**.


**Configure Microsoft SharePoint Foundation Subscription Settings Service**

1. On LON-SP1, select **Start** and under **Microsoft SharePoint 2019 Products**, select **SharePoint 2019 Central Administration**.
2. Under **System settings** select **Manage Services in this farm**.
3. Next to **Microsoft SharePoint Foundation Subscription Settings Service**, select **Enable Auto Provision**.


**Create Subscription Settings service application and proxy**
1.  Switch to the Windows PowerShell ISE.
2.  Copy the following commands into the script pane and select **Run Script**:

    ```
    $sa = New-SPSubscriptionSettingsServiceApplication -ApplicationPool 'SharePoint Web Services System' -Name 'Adatum Subscriptions Settings SA' 
    ```

    ```
    New-SPSubscriptionSettingsServiceApplicationProxy -ServiceApplication $sa
    ```

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have:
> - Designed your hybrid solution.
> - Verified prerequisites for the hybrid scenarios that you will enable.
> - Prepare on-premises and cloud infrastructure for those hybrid scenarios.


## Exercise 2: Deploy SharePoint services in a hybrid configuration
  
#### Task 1: Deploy and configure hybrid sites and hybrid cloud search

1. On **LON-SP1**, open a new tab in **Internet Explorer** and navigate to [http://portal.office.com](http://portal.office.com).
2. Sign in as **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**. Use the password that you created in Module 1.
  
  > **Note**: If prompted to stay signed in, select **No**.

3. Select **Admin**, select **Show all**, and then, under **Admin centers**, select **SharePoint**.

    >**Note:** If **Show all** option is missing in the navigation bar, add **https://admin.microsoft.com** to the Trusted Sites in Internet Explorer and then refresh the window.

4. Select **More features** and then under **Hybrid picker** select **Open**.
5. Select **Go to Hybrid Picker Download Page**.
6. Select **click here** if needed, and then select **Install**.

    > **Note:** If the Hybrid Picker Download Page does not open, in a new tab, navigate to [https://aka.ms/AA3696u](https://aka.ms/AA3696u), and when prompted, select **Run** then select **Install**.

7. Select **Run**.
8. In the **SharePoint Hybrid Configuration Wizard**, select **Next**.
9. On the **Credentials** page, in **Username**, enter **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, and then select **Validate Credentials**.
10. In the **password** box, type the password that you created in Module 1 and select **Sign in**.
11. Select **Close**, and then select **Next**.
12. On the **Checking prerequisites** page, select **Next**.
13. Under **Which features do you want to configure**, select:
  - Hybrid OneDrive
  - Hybrid sites

14. Clear the selection for:
  - Hybrid business to business (B2B) sites
  - Hybrid app launcher
  - Hybrid search

15. Select **Next**.
16. Select **Close** and then select **Yes**.
17. Switch to Windows PowerShell ISE and at the command prompt, enter the command **IISReset**
.


**Configure cloud hybrid search**

1. Switch to Windows PowerShell ISE.
2. Navigate to **C:\\labfiles\\mod06\\**, and then open **CreateCloudSSA.txt**.
3. Replace the contents of the Windows PowerShell ISE script pane with the contents of **CreateCloudSSA.txt**.
4. Select **Run Script**.
5. When prompted enter the following and then wait for script to complete:
  - SearchServerName: **LON-SP1**
  - SearchServiceAccount: **Adatum\\SPSearch**
  - SearchServiceAppName: **AdatumCloudSearch**
  - DatabaseServerName: **LON-SP1**

    >**Note:** The script can take several mintues to run and may appear to hang. Select inside the console section of the ISE window and press the Enter key once or twice to refresh. 

6. Navigate to **C:\\labfiles\\mod06\\**, and then open **Onboard-CloudHybridSearch.txt**.
7. Replace the contents of the Windows PowerShell ISE script pane with the contents of **Onboard-CloudHybridSearch.txt**.
8. Select **Run Script**.
9. When prompted enter:
  - PortalUrl: **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com**
  - Username: **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**
  - Password: The password you created in Module 1

    > **Note:** Errors can appear while running the scripts due to network issues. If errors appear, rerun the scripts. You can run them multiple times safely.


**Start a search crawl**

1. Select **Start**, and under **Microsoft SharePoint 2019 Products**, select **SharePoint 2019 Central Administration**.
2. Select **Manage Service Applications**.
3. Select the Search Service Application: **AdatumCloudSearch**.
4. Select **Content Sources**.
5. Next to **Local SharePoint sites**, select the drop-down arrow and select **Edit**.
6. Next to **Start Addresses**, in the **Type start addresses below (one per line):** text-box enter **http://mysites.adatum.com** and **http://sharepoint.adatum.com**.
7. Next to **Crawl Schedules** and select **Enable Continuous Crawls**.
8. Under **Full Crawl** select **Create schedule**.
9. Verify that **Daily** is selected and select **Repeat within the day**.
10. Select **OK**and select **OK** again.
11. Select **Start all crawls**.

#### Task 2: Configure hybrid OneDrive for Business

**Configure user permissions**

1. On **LON-SP1**, select **Start**, and under **Microsoft SharePoint 2019 Products**, select **SharePoint 2019 Central Administration**.
2. Select **Manage Service Applications**.
3. Select the User Profile Service Application. **Adatum UPSA**.
4. Under **People**, select **Manage Audiences**, and then select **New Audience**.
5. In the **Name** box, type **SharePoint Hybrid Pilot**.
6. Select **Satisfy all of the rules**, and then select **OK**.
7. Select **Property**, and then, in the drop-down box, select the first instance of **Department**.
8. In the **Operator** drop-down box, select **=**.
9. In the **Value** box, enter **IT**, and then select **OK**.
10. Select **Office 365**.
11. Select **Configure hybrid OneDrive and Sites features**.
12. Next to **Select audience for hybrid features**, select **Use a specific audience** and enter **SharePoint Hybrid Pilot**.
13. Next to **Select hybrid features** verify **OneDrive and Sites** is selected.
14. Select **OK**.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have:
> - Deployed and configured hybrid sites and hybrid cloud search.
> - Configured hybrid OneDrive for Business.


## Exercise 3: Validate the SharePoint services functionality in a hybrid configuration
  
#### Task 1: Validate hybrid sites functionality

1. Switch to **LON-CL1** and sign in with the following credentials:
  - Username: **Beth**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
  - Domain: **Adatum**

2. Open **Microsoft Edge** and go to **http://sharepoint.adatum.com**.

  > **Note**: If you receive a welcome page, select **Next** to close it.

3. Sign in with the credentials from step 1.
4. Select **Not following**.
5. Select the app launcher (grid icon) and then select **SharePoint**.
6. Sign in with the credentials from step 1.
7. Verify that **SharePoint** redirects to your **My Site** on SharePoint Online.
8. Switch to **LON-CL2**, sign out,  and sign in with the following credentials:
  - Username: **Allan**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
  - Domain: **Adatum**

9. Open **Microsoft Edge** and navigate to **http://sharepoint.adatum.com**.
10. Sign in with the credentials provided in step 8.
11. Select **Follow**.

    >**Note:** If prompted, select **Get started** on the **Wait a minute** dialog box.

12. Select the app launcher (grid icon) and then select **SharePoint**.
13. Sign in with the credentials provided in step 8.

  > **Note**: If you receive a welcome page, select **Next** to close it.

14. Verify that **SharePoint** opens **My Sites** opens in SharePoint Server, and that the on-premises SharePoint site is listed as a site that you follow.


#### Task 2: Validate OneDrive for Business in hybrid
  
1. Switch to **LON-CL1**.
2. Open **Microsoft Edge** and go to **http://sharepoint.adatum.com**.
3. Select the app launcher, and then select **OneDrive**.
4. Verify that the link opens OneDrive for Business in Office 365.

  > **Note:** You will be prompted to sign in with the Office 365 credentials for Beth Burke.

  - Username: **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**
  - Password: The password you created in Module 1

  > If a welcome screen appears, close it.

5. Switch to **LON-CL2**.
6. Open **Microsoft Edge** and go to **http://sharepoint.adatum.com**.
7. Select the app launcher, and then select **OneDrive**.
8. Verify that the link opens OneDrive for Business in SharePoint Server.


#### Task 3: Validate hybrid cloud search functionality

1. Switch to **LON-CL1**.
2. Open **Microsoft Edge** and go to **http://adatum*yyxxxx*.sharepoint.com**.
3. Sign in as **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**. Use the password that you created in Module 1.
4. In the search box, type **Document**, and then press Enter.
5. Verify that the results include content from both the on-premises SharePoint Server farm and SharePoint Online.
6. In the **Search** box type **IsExternalContent:1** and press **enter**.
7. Verify that the results include only content from SharePoint Server.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the lab in the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have:
> - Validated hybrid sites functionality.
> - Validated hybrid OneDrive for Business redirection.
> - Validated hybrid cloud search functionality.


©2019 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
