# Lab Answer Key:  Module 2: Deploying and configuring directory synchronization
# Lab: Administering directory synchronization, users, and groups in an Office 365 hybrid environment
  
## Exercise 1: Preparing the directory and configuring Azure AD Connect
  
#### Task 1: Configure UPNs on AD DS accounts
  

1. On **LON-DC1**, from **Server Manager**, click **Tools** and then select **Active Directory Domains and Trusts**.
2. In the **Active Directory Domains and Trusts** window, right-click **Active Directory Domains and Trusts**, and then select **Properties**.
3. On the **UPN Suffixes** tab, in the **Alternative UPN suffixes** box, type**Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select **Add**.
4. Select **OK**.
5. Click **Start**, right-click the **Windows PowerShell** tile, and then select **Run as Administrator**.
6. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-ADUser -Filter * -Properties SamAccountName | foreach {Set-ADUser $_ -UserPrincipalName ($_.SamAccountName + "@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com" )}
  ```

7. On **LON-DC1**, at the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  CD C:\labfiles\
  ```

8. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted
  ```

9. To confirm the execution policy change, type **Yes**, and then press Enter.
10. In File Explorer, navigate to folder C:\\labfiles\\ and change the extension of CreateProblemUsers.txt file to CreateProblemUsers.ps1.
11. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  .\CreateProblemUsers.ps1
  ```

  > **Note:** Wait until the script has completed before proceeding to the next step.

12. This script will make following changes in Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS):

  - Klemen Sic. Adds the at sign \(\@\) to the beginning of **"adatum"** for the **UserPrincipalName** attribute.
  - Lara Raisic. Replaces the existing string with **"lara\@adatum.com"** for the **EmailAddress** attribute.
  - Logan Boyle. Replaces the existing string with **"lara\@adatum.com"** for the **emailAddress** attribute.
  - Holly Spencer. Replaces the existing string with **"Holly\@adatum.com"** for the **EmailAddress** attribute.
  - Maj Hojski. Replaces the existing string with **" "** for the **emailAddress** attribute.


#### Task 2: Use the IdFix tool to identify and troubleshoot issues

1. On **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, and then connect to **https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=36832**.
2. On the **IdFix Directory Synchronization Error Remediation Tool** page, select **Download**, and then select **Save**.
3. Wait for the download to complete, and then select **Open folder**.
4. In the **Downloads** folder, right-click **IdFix.zip**, and then select **Extract All**.
5. In the **Extract Compressed (Zipped) Folders** dialog box, in the destination box, type **C:\\Deployment Tools\\IdFix**, and then select **Extract**.
6. In File Explorer, in the **C:\\Deployment Tools\\IdFix** folder, hold down the shift key, right-click **IdFix.exe**, and then select **Run as different user**.
7. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, type **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**. Click **OK**.
8. In the **IdFix Privacy Statement** message box, select **OK**.
9. Select **Query**. You should see several errors.
10. Select the **ERROR** column to sort the character errors to the top of the list.

  > **Note:** Ignore the top-level domain errors, which cannot be fixed by the Office 365 IdFix Directory Synchronization Error Remediation Tool.

11. In the **Klemen Sic** row, in the **ACTION** column, select **EDIT**.
12. In the **Holly Spencer** row, in the **ACTION** column, select **EDIT**.
13. In the **Maj Hojski** row, in the **ACTION** column, select **EDIT**.
14. On the toolbar, select **Apply**.
15. In the **Apply Pending** dialog box, select **Yes**, and then note the **COMPLETE** status in the **ACTION** column indicating successful writes.
16. Switch to File Explorer, and then in the **C:\\Deployment Tools\\IdFix** folder, double-click **Verbose \<date\> \<time\>.txt** to view the updated transactions in the transaction log.
17. Switch back to the IdFix tool.
18. On the toolbar, select **Query**.
19. In the **UPDATE** column, select the **Logan Boyle** error, replace the string with **logan\@adatum.com**, and then in the **ACTION** column, select **EDIT**.
20. In the **UPDATE** column, select the **Maj Hojski** error, replace the string with **maj\@adatum.com**, and then in the **ACTION** column, select **EDIT**.
21. On the toolbar, select **Apply**.
22. In the **Apply Pending** box, select **Yes**.
23. On the toolbar, select **Query**, and then verify that errors were corrected.

> **Note:** Where format and duplicate errors for distinguished names exist, the **UPDATE** column either contains the same string as the **VALUE** column or is blank. In either case, this means that IdFix cannot suggest a remediation for the error. You can either fix these errors outside IdFix or manually remediate them within IdFix. You can also export the results and use Windows PowerShell to remediate a large number of errors.


#### Task 3: Download and install Azure AD Connect
  

1. Sign in to **LON-DS1** as **Adatum\\Administrator** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**. If the Networks pane appears, select **Yes**.
2. From the taskbar, start **Internet Explorer**.
3. Click **Tools** and then click **Internet Options**.
4. On the **Internet Options** dialog box, select **Security**.
5. On the **Security** page, ensure that **Internet** is selected, and then click **Custom level**.
6. Scroll down and then under **Downloads\\File download** ensure that the option selected is **Enable**.
7. Click **OK**.
8. Click **OK** to close the dialog box.
9. In the **Address** box, type **https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=47594**, and then press Enter.
10. On the **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** download page, select **Download**.
11. In the **Internet Explorer** notification bar, select **Save as**, browse to **C:\\Labfiles**, and then select **Save**.
12. When the download has completed, in the **Internet Explorer** notification bar, select **Open folder**.
13. In File Explorer, right-click **AzureADConnect.msi**, and then select **Install**.
14. In the **Open File - Security Warning** dialog box, select **Run**.
15. On the **Welcome to Azure AD Connect** page, select **I agree to the license terms and privacy notice**, and then select **Continue**.
16. On the **Express Settings** page, select **Customize**.
17. Leave the **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** wizard open for the next task.


#### Task 4: Configure directory synchronization with Azure AD Connect
  
1. On the **Install required components** page, ensure that the check boxes are cleared, and then select **Install**.
2. On the **User Sign-in** page, select **Password Hash Synchronization**, and then select **Next**.
3. On the **Connect to Azure AD** page, enter the following credentials, replacing*yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select **Next**:

  - Username: **Beth\@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**.
  - Password: The password you created in Module 1

4. On the **Connect your directories** page, select **Add Directory**.
5. In the **AD Forest account** dialog box, select **Create new AD account**, enter the following credentials, and then select **OK**:

  - Enterprise Admin UserName: **Adatum\\Administrator**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

6. Select **Next**.
7. On the **Azure AD sign-in configuration** page, select the check box next to **Continue without matching all UPN suffixes to verified domains**, and then select **Next**.
8. On the **Domain and OU filtering** page, select **Sync selected domains and OUs**, expand **Adatum.com**, clear all check boxes for the child containers except for the **IT** check box, and then select **Next**.
9. On the **Uniquely identifying your users** page, select **Next**.
10. On the **Filter users and devices** page, verify that **Synchronize all users and devices** is selected, and then select **Next**.
11. On the **Optional Features** page, select **Exchange hybrid deployment**, **Password hash synchronization**, and **Password writeback**, and then select **Next**.
12. On the **Ready to configure** page, review the features that will be installed. Ensure that **Start the synchronization process when configuration completes** is selected, and then select **Install**.

  > **Note:** The installation process will take approximately 10 minutes to complete.

13. On the **Configuration complete** page, click **Exit** and then sign out of**LON-DS1**, and then sign back in as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

  > **Note:** Because you used**Adatum\\Administrator** to install Azure AD Connect, it will automatically be added to the ADSyncAdmins group, and you need to sign out for the Kerberos token to be updated. Otherwise, if you use a different user account to install Azure AD Connect, you will need to manually add the Azure AD Connect admin to the local ADSyncAdmins group on LON-DS1.

14. On **LON-DS1**, select **Start**, open the **Azure AD Connect** folder, and then select **Synchronization Service**.
15. In Synchronization Service Manager on LON-DS1, select the **Connectors** tab.
16. On the **Connectors** tab, double-click **Adatum.com**.
17. In the **Properties** dialog box, select **Configure Directory Partitions**.
18. Select **Containers**.
19. In the **Credentials** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then select **OK**:

  - Username: **Administrator**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
  - Domain: **Adatum.com**

  > **Note:** Although this account is not the one used for directory synchronization, you temporarily use the account credentials to access AD DS for configuring filtering.

20. In the **Select Containers** dialog box, select the **Research** check box, verify that **IT** is selected, and then select **OK**.
21. Select **OK** to close the **Properties** window.


#### Task 5: Verify synchronization results

1. Ensure that you are signed in to **LON-DS1** as**Adatum\\Administrator** with a password of**Pa55w.rd**.
2. On the Start menu, open the **Azure AD Connect** folder, and then select **Synchronization Service**.
3. On **LON-DS1**, in Synchronization Service Manager, select **Operations**.
4. In the **Connector Operations** list, select the line at the top of the list, and then review the **Start Time**, **End Time**, and **Status**.
5. Verify that the connector has a **Start Time** and**End Time** that aligns with the last time synchronization was initiated in the previous task. Also, ensure that the **Status** column has the **success** value.
6. Click **Start**, right-click the **Windows PowerShell tile,** and then select **Run as Administrator**.
7. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, then press Enter:

  ```
  Install-Module MSOnline
  ```

8. For each of the prompts in Windows PowerShell, enter **Yes**.
9. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following commands, and then press Enter after each command:

  ```
  Import-Module MSOnline
  Connect-MsolService
  ```

10. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, enter the following credentials, replacing*yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number, and then select **Sign in**:

  - Username: **Beth\@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**
  - Password: The password you created in Module 1, "Introduction to Office 365 administration and licensing"

11. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolCompanyInformation | fl LastDirSyncTime
  ```

12. Verify that **LastDirSyncTime** aligns with the last time synchronization was initiated in the previous task.
13. On the task bar, open Internet Explorer, and then type **https://portal.office.com/admin/default.aspx** in the address bar.
14. On the **Sign-in** page, sign in by using the following credentials, replacing*yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number:

  - Username: **Beth\@ Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrsosft.com**
  - Password: The password you created in Module 1, "Introduction to Office 365 administration and licensing"

15. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, expand **Health**, and then click **Directory Sync Status**, verify that the **Last directory sync** time was less than one hour ago.
16. Select the **Users** menu, and then select **Active users. N**ote that your on-premises accounts from the selected OUs now have a status of **Synced with Active Directory** in the **Sync Type** column.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, the students should have successfully deployed Azure AD Connect and configured directory synchronization.


## Exercise 2: Manage Office 365 users and groups with a GUI and Windows PowerShell
  
#### Task 1: Create a new user and a new group account in AD DS

1. On **LON-DC1**, in Server Manager, select **Tools**, and then select **Active Directory Users and Computers**.
2. In the console tree, expand **Adatum.com**, right-click **Research**, select **New**, and then select **User**.
3. In the **First name** box, type **Perry**.
4. In the **Last name** box, type **Brill**.
5. In the **User logon name** box, type **Perry**, select **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com** as the user principal name \(UPN\) of your lab domain \(where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number\), and then select **Next**.
6. In the **password ** and **Confirm password ** boxes, type **Pa55w.rd**, clear the **User must change password at next logon** check box, select **Next**, and then select **Finish**.
7. In the **Research OU** user list, double-click the **Perry Brill** user.
8. In the **Perry Brill Properties** dialog box, in the **E-mail** box, type **Perry\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com** \(replacing*yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number\), and then select **OK**.
9. In the console tree, right-click the **Research OU**, select **New**, and then select **Group**.
10. In the **New Object - Group** window, in the **Group name** box, type **Project Team**, select **Universal**, select **Security**, and then select **OK**.
11. In the **Research** OU, double-click the **Project Team** group.
12. In the **Project Team Properties** window, in the **E-mail** box, type **projectteam\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number.
13. On the **Members** tab, select **Add**.
14. In the **Select Users, Contacts, Computers, Service Accounts, or Groups** dialog box, in the **Enter the object names to select** box, type the following names, and then select **Check Names**:

  - **Arturs Priede**
  - **August Towle**
  - **Cai Chu**

15. Select **OK** twice.


#### Task 2: Move a user in and out of the scope of synchronization

1. Switch to **LON-DS1**.
2. On **LON-DS1**, open the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following commands, and then press Enter after each command:

  ```
  Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Initial

  Get-MsolUser -SearchString Vera
  ```

3. Verify that the user **Vera Pace** is listed in Microsoft Office 365.
4. On **LON-DC1**, in Active Directory Users and Computers, right-click **Vera Pace** in the **Research** OU user list, select **Move**, and then select the **Sales** OU. select **OK**.
5. In the console tree, expand **Adatum.com** if needed, and then select **Marketing**.
6. Right-click **Ada Russell**, and then select **Move**.
7. In the **Move** dialog box, select **Research**, and then select **OK**.
8. In the console tree of Active Directory Users and Computers, select **Research**.
9. In the rightmost pane, double-click **Research**.
10. In the **Research Properties** dialog box, select the **Members** tab.
11. Select the following three users, and then select **Remove**. In the confirmation dialog box, select **Yes**.

  - **Claire Roberson**
  - **Connie Vaughn**
  - **Esther Wiggins**

12. Select **OK**.
13. On **LON-DS1**, at the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Delta
  ```

  > **Note:** the **Delta** switch is used here so that only the updates are synchronized.

14. To verify the new user you created, on **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, in the address bar, type **https://portal.office.com/adminportal/home** to open the Microsoft 365 admin center.
15. Sign in using the following credentials, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number:

  - Username: **Beth\@Adatumyyxxxxx.Onmicrosoft.com**
  - Password: The password you created in Module 1, "Introduction to Office 365 administration and licensing"

16. Click **Admin**.
17. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the navigation pane, select **Users**, and then select **Active Users**.
18. In the **Active Users** list, select **Perry Brill**.
19. Next to **Contact information**, select **Edit**.
20. Verify that the message "This user is synchronized with your local Active Directory" appears, and then close the dialog box.
21. Next to the **Product licenses** section, select **Edit**.
22. On the **Product licenses** page, in the **Location** menu, select **United States**, and then select the icon next to **Office 365 Enterprise E5**.
23. Select **Save**, and then select **Close** twice.
24. Repeat the previous steps to assign the Office 365 license for user **Ada Russell**.
25. To verify that you created the new group, in the Office 365 Admin center, in the navigation pane, select **Groups**, and then select **Groups**.
26. In the **Groups** list, verify that **Project Team** appears.

  > **Note:** You might need to wait up to 10 minutes before the group appears. Refresh the list until you see the object.

27. In the **Groups** list, select the **Project Team** group.

  > **Note:** Notice that**Edit Members** is unavailable. This is because group membership is maintained by AD DS. To view the membership, you need to use Windows PowerShell.

28. On **LON-DS1**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolGroup
  ```

29. Verify that you see the **Research** and**Project Team** groups. Copy the **ObjectID** value for the Research group.
30. To verify that you updated the group membership in AD DS, type the following command at the Windows PowerShell prompt, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId <ObjectID for Research group>
  ```

  > **Note**: Replace \<ObjectID for Research group\> with Object ID you have noted in previous step.

31. Verify that the membership of the group does not contain the users removed in AD DS. The users who were removed from the group are:

  - **Claire Roberson**
  - **Connie Vaughn**
  - **Esther Wiggins**

32. To verify that you moved the user **Vera Pace** out of the scope of synchronization, type the following command at the Windows PowerShell prompt, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -SearchString Vera
  ```


#### Task 3: Manage user licenses for Office 365

1. On **LON-CL1**, in the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the **Active users** list, select **Abbi Skinner**.
2. In the rightmost pane, in the **Product licenses** section, select **Edit**.
3. On the **Product licenses** page, in the **Location** box, select **United States**.
4. Enable the Office 365 Enterprise E5 license.
5. Review all the enabled features in this license plan.
6. Select **Save**, and then select **Close** twice.
7. In the **Active users** list, select **Ada Russell**.
8. In the rightmost pane, in the **Product licenses** section, select **Edit**.
9. Disable the following features: **Microsoft Teams**, **Sway**, and **Flow for Office 365**.
10. Click **Save**, and then click **Close** twice.


#### Task 4: Create and manage users and assign licenses by using Windows PowerShell
  

1. On **LON-DS1**, at the Windows PowerShell Command Prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Connect-MsolService
  ```

2. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, sign in as**Beth\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** (where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number) by using Beth's password.
3. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** is your unique domain name. Provide a password that meets the complexity requirements:

  ```
  New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -DisplayName "Catherine Richard" -FirstName "Catherine" -LastName "Richard" -Password 'Provide a password' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "US"
  ```

4. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** is your unique domain name. Provide a password that meets the complexity requirements:

  ```
  New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName tameka@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -DisplayName "Tameka Reed" -FirstName "Tameka" -LastName "Reed" -Password 'Provide a password' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "US"
  ```

5. To determine which users are unlicensed, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -UnlicensedUsersOnly
  ```

6. To view the available licenses, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolAccountSku
  ```

7. To license Catherine Richard, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. Replace **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** in the **-AddLicenses** attribute with the unique **onmicrosoft.com** domain name prefix:

  ```
  Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -AddLicenses "Adatumyyxxxxx:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
  ```

8. To license **Tameka Reed**, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. Replace **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** in the **-AddLicenses** attribute with the onmicrosoft.com domain name:

  ```
  Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Tameka@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -AddLicenses "Adatumyyxxxxx:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
  ```

9. To prevent a user from signing in, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. **Adatumyyxxxxx** is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -BlockCredential $true
  ```

10. To delete a user, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Remove-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -Force
  ```

11. To view the **Deleted Users** list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
  ```

12. Verify that **Catherine Richard** is in the list of deleted users. Note that it specifies that she is still licensed.
13. To restore a deleted user, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Restore-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
  ```

14. To view the deleted users list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
  ```

15. Verify that **Catherine Richard** is no longer in the list of deleted users.
16. To view the active users list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser
  ```

17. Verify that **Catherine Richard** is in the active users list.
18. To allow a user to sign in, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -BlockCredential $false
  ```

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, the students should have successfully managed Office 365 users by using a GUI and PowerShell.


## Exercise 3: Manage Office 365 password policies and self-service password reset
  
#### Task 1: Configure a password policy in Office 365 and enable self-service password reset
  

1. On **LON-CL1**, in the Microsoft 365 admin center, on the navigation menu, point to **Settings**, and then click **Security &amp; privacy**.
2. In the **Password policy** area, click **Edit**.
3. On the **Password policy** page, turn off the option to**Set user passwords to never expire**.
4. On the **Password policy** page, in the **Days before passwords expire** box, type**60**.

  > **Note:** You would not do this in the real world. This is a classroom example that allows you to verify the policy applied in the next exercise task.

5. In the **Days before a user is notified about expiration** box, leave the default value of **14**, and then click **Save**.
6. Verify that the "**_Password policy has been updated_**" message appears at the top of the page, and then click **Close**.
7. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, expand the **Admin centers** menu, and then click **Azure Active Directory**.
8. If needed, sign in with the administrator account for your Office 365 subscription.
9. In the Azure portal, click **Azure Active Directory**.
10. In the middle pane, click **Licenses**.
11. In the **Licenses** pane, click **All products**.
12. Click **Try/Buy**, and then under **Azure AD Premium P2**, select **Free trial**.
13. Click **Activate**.
14. Click **Dashboard**.
15. In the middle pane, under **Self-service password reset**, click **Enable your users to reset their forgotten passwords**.
16. In the **Self -Service Password Reset Information** page, click **Configure**.
17. In the **Enable SSPR** page, In the Name box, type **SingleSignOn**, click **Members** and then select **Abbi Skinner**.
18. Click **select** and then click **Enable**.
19. Close the **Microsoft Edge** window, click **Close all**, and then reopen it.


#### Task 2: Validate the self-service password reset functionality

1. In Microsoft Edge, go to **https://myapps.microsoft.com**. If you are already signed in, sign out.
2. Select **Use another account**.
3. Type **Abbi\@_yourdomain_**.**_hostdomain_.com**, and when prompted, sign in as **Abbi\@_yourdomain_**.**_hostdomain_.com** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
4. On the **Microsoft Azure** page, wait for 5-15 seconds, and then in the window that appears, click **verify now**.
5. On the **don't lose access to your account** page, for the **Authentication Phone** option, select **Set it up now**.
6. Select your country or region, type your mobile phone number, and then select **text me**.
7. In the box, type the number that you receive in a text message, and then select **verify**.
8. Select **Set it up now** for the **email** option. Type your email address, and then select **email me**.
9. Read the code from the email, type it in the **verification** box, and then select **verify**. Note: If you don't find a message with a code in your Inbox, check the Junk folder.
10. On the **don't lose access to your account!** page, select **finish**.
11. On the **Microsoft Azure** page, select the **Abbi** account, and then select **profile**.
12. Select **Set up self service password reset**.
13. If the **confirm your current password** page appears, select **re-enter my password**. On the **sign in** page, type the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then select **Sign in**.
14. On the **don't lose access to your account!** page, select **looks good**.
15. On the **Microsoft Azure** page, select the **Abbi** account, and then select **profile**.
16. In the Azure portal, select **Change password**.
17. On the **change password ** page, in the **Old password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then in the **Create new password** box and **Confirm new password** box, type **Moc10984A**. Select **submit**.
18. Wait until the Microsoft Azure profile portal appears, and then close the **Microsoft Edge** window. click **Close all**.
19. Ensure that you are signed in to **LON-DS1**.
20. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Delta
  ```

21. Wait approximately four minutes.
22. Close Windows PowerShell, and then switch to **LON-CL1**. Sign out if needed.
23. Try to sign in to **LON-CL1** as**Adatum\\Abbi** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
24. Ensure that you get the message that the user name or password is incorrect.
25. Try to sign in to **LON-CL1** as**Adatum\\Abbi** with the password **Moc10984A**. You should be able to sign in. This confirms that the password you changed in the Azure portal has been written back to your local AD DS.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, the students should have successfully configured password policies and self-service password reset.


©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
