# Lab Answer Key:  Module 3: Exchange Server hybrid deployment planning
# Lab: Planning and designing the integration between Exchange Online and Exchange Server 2016
  
## Exercise 1: Designing an Exchange hybrid deployment
  
#### Task 1: Read and analyze the scenario requirements
  
- Read the exercise scenario. Analyze the requirements from an integration perspective. Identify the configurations that are necessary to satisfy the requirements.


#### Task 2: Design a solution
  
  **Question**: What components do you need to install and configure to satisfy the requirements? 

  **Answer**: You need the following components:

  - The Azure AD Connect already is deployed, but you must reconfigure it for an Exchange Hybrid deployment.
  - You must use Password Synchronization as your password-management solution because it requires the least amount of administrative effort.
  - You must deploy an Edge Transport Server to act as a relay between the on-premises Exchange Servers and EOP, and to prevent the internal servers from communicating directly with the internet.
  - The Hybrid Configuration wizard is required to configure a hybrid deployment that satisfies the remaining requirements.

  **Question**: What are the licensing requirements for Exchange Online? 

  **Answer**: Adatum must acquire 3,500 Enterprise subscriptions to support 50 percent of the mailboxes within the next six months.

  **Question**: What existing Exchange Servers can you use for Hybrid transport and Autodiscover? 

  **Answer**: You can use **NYC-DAG1**, **LON-DAG1**, and **ATL-EX1** for Client Access services and Autodiscover. Based on the requirements, you can't use any of the current servers for message transport to EOP. You must deploy at least one Edge Transport Server because hybrid transport does not support the existing non-Microsoft SMTP relay devices.

  **Question**: What other areas do you need to consider if you want to run the Hybrid Configuration wizard successfully? 

  **Answer**: You need to consider the following items:

  - You must publish the at least one Client Access Server to a reverse proxy to resolve AutoDiscover requests. You can use the Layer 7 network load balancer as a reverse proxy.
  - You need to install a publicly trusted digital certificate to make AutoDiscover and Microsoft Exchange Server Federated Sharing work with Exchange Online.

  **Question**: What would be different if Adatum were running only Exchange Server 2010 and not Exchange Server 2013 on-premises? 

  **Answer**: If Adatum were running Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 instead of Microsoft Exchange Server 2013, you would need to add an Exchange Server 2016 server to the Exchange Server organization. You also must consider all other requirements in the previous answer.

  **Question**: What Hybrid Transport option should you implement? 

  **Answer**: Based on the non-Microsoft solution requirements for regulatory compliance, you should configure centralized mail transport so that the on-premises servers scan outbound mail for all online users.


> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully read and analyzed the scenario requirements and designed a solution.


## Exercise 2: Discussing a solution and reviewing the Exchange Online setup
  
#### Task 1: Discuss your solution with the class
  
- Present your proposed solution to the class. Discuss alternative solutions with other students and with the instructor.


#### Task 2: Reviewing an Exchange Online configuration in an Office 365 tenant
  

1. Switch to **LON-CL1**.
2. Sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
3. From the task bar, open Microsoft Edge.
4. In the Microsoft Edge address bar, enter **portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.
5. When prompted for an account, enter the Office 365 administrator username that you created in the Module 1 lab, such as **beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**.

    >**Note:** If Stay signed in? page appears click **No**.

6. Enter the password of your Office 365 administrator account, and then select **Sign in**.
7. To open the Microsoft 365 admin center, select the **Admin** app.

    > **Note:** If you have trouble seeing the information in the portal, change the zoom settings for Edge to 75 percent.

8. In the left navigation menu, click **Show all** select **Health**, and then select **Service Health**.
9. In the **Service health** window, confirm that the Exchange Online service status is **Service is healthy**.
10. In the left navigation menu, select **Settings**, and then select **Domains**.
11. On the **Domains** page, review the list of domain names. You should see at least one domain by default with the domain name_adatumyyxxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com. If a custom domain was added in an earlier lab, you will also see that domain in the list. For example, you might see **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** where yyxxxxx.hostdomain.com is the custom domain provided to you.
12. Select the **_adatumyyxxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com** domain. Note that there are no DNS records listed under the DNS settings section of the page.
13. To return to the **Domains** page, select **Close**.
14. In the **Domain name** list, select the custom domain that you added in Module 1 Lab A, such as **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where yyxxxxx is your unique lab number. Note the numerous DNS records listed under **Required DNS settings** on the custom domain's property page.
15. On the **domain property** page, locate and expand the **Exchange Online** section.
16. Review the records listed. You should see at least three record types: MX, TXT, and CNAME. Note that the Points to address or value for all three records are in the outlook.com namespace that Microsoft manages.

    > **Note:** In a hybrid deployment, you do not want to create the canonical name (CNAME) record that points to Exchange Online for client Autodiscover until all users have been moved to Exchange Online. However, you must add the MX record and/or TXT SPF record based on the hybrid transport routing decisions that you make.

17. To return to the **Domains** page, select **Close**.
18. In the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then to open the Exchange admin center, select **Exchange**.
19. In the left navigation menu, select **Permissions**.
20. In the **admin roles** list, double-click **Organization Management**.
21. On the **Organization Management** page, scroll down to the **Members** section. Note that by default only the **Company Administrator** has the Organization Management role.
22. To return to the **admin roles** list, select **Cancel**.
23. Double-click the **Compliance Management** admin role.
24. Are there any default members of this group? 
25. To return to the admin roles list, select **Cancel**.

    > **Note:** The answer is no by default. In fact, in Exchange Online, no other admin roles have members by default. You must add administrators before they can perform their expected tasks in Exchange Online, even if they were members of the same admin roles on-premises.

26. In the left navigation menu, select **organization**.
27. Review the default settings in the **sharing** tab. 

    > **Note** There is no organization relationship set up. However, there is a Default Sharing Policy. By running the Hybrid Configuration wizard, you can create an organization relationship so that individual users do not have to manage sharing free/busy information with other users cross-premises.

28. In the left navigation menu, select **mail flow**.
29. On the **mail flow** page, select the **accepted domains** tab. Note the **Accepted Domain** and **Domain type** fields for each domain in the list. These domain types are added automatically when you add a custom domain to your Office 365 tenant.
30. Double-click the custom domain in the list, such as **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.
31. Point the mouse to the **Accept mail for all subdomains** option to view the description. This option is helpful if your organization uses multiple email addresses based on subdomains and you don't want to provision each one of them as a custom domain. Examples are **@emea.adatum.com**, **@na.adatum.com**, and **@apac.adatum.com**.

    > **Note:** You would use the Internal Relay type if an organization subscribes to EOP only to protect their on-premises mail system.

32. To discard changes and return to **mail flow** page, select **Cancel**.
33. On the **mail flow** page, select the **connectors** tab. Note that there are no connectors by default.
34. Select **New** (plus icon), and then in the **From** field, select the **down arrow**.
35. From the list, select **Your organization's email server**.
36. From the **To** field drop-down list, select **Office 365**. Review the description of this mail flow scenario.
37. Change the **From** field to **Office 365**.
38. Change the **To** field to **Your organization's email server**. Review the description of this scenario.
39. To return to **mail flow** page, select **Cancel**.

    > **Note:** By running the Hybrid Configuration wizard, you can create the connectors in Exchange Online as well as the connectors for the on-premises Exchange Servers.

40. In the left navigation menu, select **unified messaging**. Review the notice that this feature will be retired in February of 2020. This feature will be replaced by Cloud Voicemail and the Auto Attendant service in Azure.
41. In the left navigation pane, select **hybrid**. Note that you can access the Hybrid Configuration wizard web app here in Office 365. The same option is available in Exchange Server 2016 or newer on-premises.
42. Close Microsoft Edge.
43. Select **Close all**.


#### Task 3: Prepare the Exchange on-premises environment

> **Note:** The steps you perform in this task customize your Exchange on-premises environment to use the unique **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** name that was provided to you. You must substitute your unique domain name for **adatumyyxxxxx** and the lab hosting provider's domain for **hostdomain.com**.

> Before you complete this lab task, verify that all Exchange services are running as expected.


1. On **LON-EX1** sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Right-click **Start**, select **Run**, type **mmc**, select **OK**.
3. In the MMC console select the **File** menu, select **Add/Remove Snap-in**, double-click **Certificates**, select **Computer account** and then click **Next**.
4. On the **Select Computer** window leave **Local computer** selected and then click **Finish**.
5. Click **OK** to close the Add or Remove Snap-ins window.
6. In the MMC console window, under Console Root, expand **Certificates (Local Computer)**, expand **Personal**, and select the **Certificates** folder.
7. Confirm if there is a wildcard certificate in the list, for example **\*.hostdomain.com**, and then close the MMC console window.
8. If Microsoft Management Console dialog box appear click **No**.

    > **Note:** Document the certificate domain name as you may need it later.

9. On the task bar, click **File Explorer** and then browse to **C:\Labfiles\Mod03**.
10. Right-click **PrepExch-WildcardCert.txt**, select **Rename**, change the file extension from .txt to **.ps1**, press Enter, and when prompted to confirm the change select **Yes**.
11. In **File Explorer** right-click **PrepExch-WildcardCert.ps1** and select **Edit**.
12. In the **Windows PowerShell ISE** window select **Run Script** (green play button).
13. Type your custom domain (for example **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**) and press **Enter**.
14. When prompted, confirm what you typed is correct, and then select **Yes**.
15. Wait for the domain customization to complete. When prompted to restart the Exchange server, press Enter.
16. After the computer restarts sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. Note, it can take up to 5 minutes for the server and all the Exchange services to restart.
17. On **LON-DS1** sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
18. On the task bar, open **File Explorer** and browse to **C:\Labfiles\Mod03**.
19. Right-click **ADFS.txt**, select **Rename**, change the file extension from .txt to **.ps1**, press Enter, and then when prompted to confirm the change, select **Yes**.
20. Right click **ADFS.ps1** and select **Edit**.
21. In the **Windows PowerShell ISE** window select **Run Script** (green play button).
22. Type your custom domain (for example **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**) and press Enter.
23. Confirm what you typed is correct and select **Yes**.
24. If prompted, in the **Windows PowerShell credential request** dialog box, for the password type **Pa55w.rd** and select **OK**.
25. Wait for the AD FS configuration to complete.

    > **Note:** You can safely disregard the warnings: "The SSL certificate subject alternative names do not support host name 'certauth.adfs.adatumyyxxxx.hostdomain.com'" and "The SSL certificate does not contain all the UPN suffix values that exist in the enterprise."

26. When prompted to restart **LON-DS1**, press Enter. After it restarts, sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
27. On **LON-WAP1**, sign in as **Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
28. On the task bar, open **File Explorer** and browse to **C:\Labfiles\Mod03**.
29. Right-click **WAP.txt**, select **Rename**, change the file extension from .txt to **.ps1**, press Enter, and then when prompted to confirm the change, click **Yes**.
30. Right click **WAP.ps1** and select **Edit**.
31. In the **Windows PowerShell ISE** window select **Run Script**.
32. Type your custom domain (for example **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**) and press Enter.
33. Confirm what you typed is correct and select **Yes**.
34. On the **Windows PowerShell credential request** dialog box leave the username as **Adatum\administrator**, in the **password** field type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select **OK**.
35. Wait for the WAP configuration to complete.

    > **Note:** You can safely disregard the SSL warning.

36. Close the **Windows PowerShell ISE** window.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
- When you are finished with the lab, keep all virtual machines running. The next lab/module require the virtual machines in their current state.





©2019 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
