# Lab Answer Key:  Module 1: Introduction to Office 365 administration and licensing
# Lab: Provisioning and configuring an Office 365 tenant

## Exercise 1: Configuring on-premises DNS

#### Task 1: Configure DNS for the on-premises environment


1. On **LON-DC1**, sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Select **Start**.
3. Right-click the **Windows PowerShell ISE** tile, select **More**, then select **Run as administrator**.
4. On the task bar, select **File Explorer**.
5. In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod01\\**.
6. Double-click the file **DC1DNS.txt**.
7. Copy the contents of the file **DC1DNS.txt** into the Windows PowerShell ISE **Script** pane.
8. In Windows PowerShell ISE, select **Run Script**.
9. When prompted, enter the unique domain name provided by your lab provider. \(for example: **Adatumyyxxxx.hostdomain.com**\)
10. When prompted, enter the IP address for the Web Application Server as provided by your lab provider.
11. Close the PowerShell ISE window.
12. Select **No** when prompted by Windows PowerShell ISE to save changes.

#### Task 2: Configure DNS on the on-premises web application server

1. Switch to **LON-WAP1** and sign in as **LON-WAP1\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Select **Start**.
3. Right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, select **More**, then select **Run as administrator**.
4. On the task bar, select **File Explorer**.
5. In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod01\\**.
6. Double-click the file **WAP1DNS.txt**.
7. Copy the contents of the file **WAP1DNS.txt** into the Windows PowerShell ISE **Script** pane.
8. In Windows PowerShell ISE, select **Run Script**.
9. When prompted, enter the unique domain name provided by your lab provider.
10. When prompted, enter the public IP address of the web application server **LON-WAP1** provided by your lab provider.
11. Close the PowerShell ISE window.
12. Select **No** when prompted by Windows PowerShell ISE to save changes.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured DNS for the on-premises environment in anticipation of completing the labs.


## Exercise 2: Configuring an Office 365 trial tenant

> **Note:** If you were provided an  Office 365 tenant and Office 365 admin account you can skip to Task 2.
> 
#### Task 1: Provision an Office 365 E5 trial tenant and global admin account

1. On **LON-CL1**, sign in as **Adatum\\Beth** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**. 
2. Open **Microsoft Edge**, and in the address bar, paste the following URL: [https://aka.ms/AA21ej6](https://aka.ms/AA21ej6).
3. Select **Free trial**.	
4. On the **Thank you for choosing Office 365 E5** page, type the email address you created for this course, and then select **Next**.
5.	Select **Set up account**.
6.	Under **Tell us about yourself**, type the following information, and then select **Next**. Regardless of your location, use the following information:
  - First name: **Beth**
  - Last name: **Burke**
  - Business phone number: Use your mobile phone number, including international code for your current country.
  - Company name: **Adatum**
  - Your organization size: **50-249 people**
  - Country: **United States**

7. Confirm your identity using your mobile phone by having Office 365 text you a verification code.
8. Type the verification code that you received, and then select **Verify**.
9. Create a unique domain for the company name to use in the course. Use the **_Adatumyyxxxxx_** name provided in the lab interface. In addition, you will need to verify it is available by selecting **Check availability**. 
10. Select **Next**.
11. Create your business identity by typing the name **Beth**.
12. Create and confirm your password.
13. Select **Sign up**.
14. Select **Go to setup**.
15. Select **Get started**.

> **Note:** During setup of Office 365, you may receive a variety of welcome or tour pages. Close them if they appear.


#### Task 2: Add a custom domain and verify ownership

> **Note:** If you skipped Task 1, sign in to **LON-CL1** as **Adatum\Beth** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. Open Edge and navigate to **https://portal.office.com**, sign in using the Office 365 admin credentials from your lab provider (for example admin@Avxxxxa.onmicrosoft.com).

1.	On the Office 365 portal, click on App Launcher icon and then select **Admin**.
1.	On the Microsoft 365 admin center page, click **Show all**.
1.	Expand **Settings** and select **Domains**.
1.	Click **Add Domain**.
2.	In the text box, enter your custom domain you were provided in the lab interface, and then select **Use this domain**.
1.	On the **How do you want to verify your domain** page click **Continue**.
3.	On the **Verify you own this domain** page, write down the **TXT** record from the **TXT value**. This entry will be similar to MS=ms__XXXXXXXX__. Record this value below: MS=_______________________
4.	Switch to **LON-DC1**.
5.	From Server Manager, select Tools, and **DNS** to open DNS Manager. Expand LON-DC1, Forward Lookup Zones, and select the **Adatum__yyxxxxx__.hostdomain.com** zone. 
6.	Right-click **Adatum__yyxxxxx__.hostdomain.com** and then select **Other New Records**.
6.	Under **Select a resource record type**, scroll down to **Text (TXT)**, and select **Create Record**.
7.	In the **New Resource Record** box, leave the **Record name** field blank.
8.	In the **Text** field, enter **MS=ms__XXXXXXXX__** that you recorded in Step 3 and then select **OK**.
9.	In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, select **Done**.
10.	Switch back to **LON-CL1**, and in the Microsoft 365 admin center, select **Verify**.


#### Task 3: Complete the custom domain setup

1. On the **How do you want to connect your domain** page click **Continue**.
2. On the **Add DNS records** page leave the check box for **Exchange and Exchange Online Protection** and then select **Continue**.
1. On the **Domain setup is complete** page click **Done**.


#### Task 4: Verify Office 365 service health

1. In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the navigation pane, select **Show all**.
2. Select **Health** on the left-hand menu, and then select **Service health** to display the **Service health** dashboard.
3. In the details pane, view the status of the Microsoft 365 services. If any services are showing a status other than **Service is healthy**, select the service.
4. Review any service interruption records or additional information in the status page.
5. Close **Microsoft Edge**.
6. If prompted, select **Close all**.


> **Note:** Occasionally, Office 365 might not successfully create the trial tenant. As a result, the tenant will not have all the services available to it. If this happens, create a new trial tenant using a different business email (Microsoft account).

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have provisioned an Office 365 E5 trial tenant and global admin account. You will have added a custom domain and verified ownership. You will have completed the custom domain setup including DNS records and verified Office 365 services health.


## Exercise 3: Exploring the Microsoft 365 admin interfaces

#### Task 1: Explore the Microsoft 365 admin center

1. On **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge and then browse to **http://portal.office.com**.
2. Sign in as **Beth** using the configured username and password. Close any prompts that appear.
3. Click the **App Launcher** and then click **Admin**.
4. On the left navigation menu, expand the menu and then scroll down to explore all available items, expanding items such as **Users**, **Groups**, and **Settings**.
5. On the left navigation menu, expand **Users**, and then select **Active users**.
6. Review the users list.
7. On the left navigation menu, select **Show all**, expand **Health**, and then select **Message center**.
8. In the right pane, review any messages.
9. Do not close the browser window.


#### Task 2: Explore the Exchange admin center

1. In the navigation pane,  select **Exchange**. A new tab opens displaying **Exchange admin center**.
2. Select **Classic Exchange admin center**.
2. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.


#### Task 3: Explore the Teams admin center

1. Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab, then select **Teams**.
2. Verify that a new tab opens displaying **Microsoft Teams admin center**.
3. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items and review the results displayed on the right pane.

> **Note:** Optionally you can select the Take tour button to review the Microsoft Teams admin center.


#### Task 4: Explore the SharePoint admin center

1. Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab, then select **SharePoint**.
3. Verify that a new tab opens displaying **SharePoint admin center**.
4. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results that display in the right pane.


#### Task 5: Explore the Microsoft OneDrive admin center

1. Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2. On the left navigation menu, select **All admin centers**.
4. On the **All admin centers** page, select **OneDrive**.
5. A new tab opens displaying **OneDrive admin center**.
6. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items and review the results that display in the right pane.


#### Task 6: Explore the Azure Active Directory admin center

1. Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2. On the **All admin centers** page, select **Azure Active Directory**.
3. Verify that a new tab opens displaying **Azure Active Directory admin center**.
4. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results that display in the right pane.


#### Task 7: Explore the Security & Compliance center

1.	Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2.	From the navigation pane, select **Security**.
3.	Verify that a new tab opens displaying **Office 365 Security & Compliance**. 
4.	On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and then review the results that display in the right pane.
5.	Close **Microsoft Edge**.

> **Note:** When you click on **Compliance** the Microsoft 365 compliance center will open with additional options to configure.   

#### Task 8: Prepare for the next module

- Keep the virtual machines running for the lab in the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have explored the following Office 365 interfaces:
>  - Microsoft 365 admin center
>  - Exchange admin center
>  - Teams admin center
>  - SharePoint admin center
>  - OneDrive admin center
>  - Azure Active Directory admin center
>  - Security and Compliance admin center



©2019 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
