# Lab Answer Key:  Module 8: Authentication options in hybrid deployments
# Lab: Implement authentication solutions in hybrid deployments
  
## Exercise 1: Deploy AD FS for SSO
  
#### Task 1: Prepare lab environment
  

1. If needed, sign in to LON-WAP1, as **LON-WAP1\\Administrator** with password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Click **Start**, right click on **Windows PowerShell** and then click on**Run as Administrator**.
3. In Administrator: Windows PowerShell window, type following cmdlet and then press **enter**:

  ```
  Uninstall-WindowsFeature -Name Web-Application-Proxy -computerName LON-WAP1
  ```

4. After command executes, and you get command prompt back, close the Windows PowerShell window.
5. Restart LON-WAP1. After the server restarts, sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** with password **Pa55w.rd**.
6. Switch to LON-DS1. If needed, sign in to LON-DS1, as **Adatum\\Administrator** with password **Pa55w.rd**.
7. Click **Start**, right click on **Windows PowerShell** and then click on **Run as Administrator**.
8. In Administrator: Windows PowerShell window, type following cmdlet and then press **enter**:

  ```
  Uninstall-WindowsFeature -Name ADFS-Federation -computerName LON-DS1
  ```

9. After command executes, and you get command prompt back, close the Windows PowerShell window.
10. Restart LON-DS1. After the server restarts, sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** with password **Pa55w.rd**.


#### Task 2: Configure required Domain Name System \(DNS\) records

1. On **LON-DS1**, on the taskbar, if not already opened, start **Windows PowerShell**.
2. Type **IPConfig**, and then press Enter.
3. Record the IPv4 address that is assigned to the server.
4. On **LON-DC1**, open **Server Manager**, click **Tools**, and then click **DNS**.
5. Expand **LON-DC1**, expand **Forward Lookup Zones**, and then click the **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com** zone.
6. Click and then right-click **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**, and then click **New Host \(A or AAAA\)**.
7. In the **New Host** dialog box, leave the **Name** text box empty, and then in the **IP address** text box, type the External IP address that the hosting partner provided.
8. Click **Add Host**, and then click **OK**.
9. In the **New Host** dialog box, leave the **Name** text box empty, and then in the **IP address** text box, type the **LON-DS1** IP address that you recorded in step 3.
10. Click **Add Host**, click **OK**, and then click **Done**.
11. Close **DNS Manager** console.


#### Task 3: Install and configure AD FS

1. Switch to **LON-DS1** and, if needed, sign in to the as**Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. If Windows PowerShell window is not already opened, in the **Start** menu, right-click **Windows PowerShell**, and then click **Run as Administrator**.
3. At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. This command creates the Key Distribution Services root key to generate Group Managed Service Account (gMSA) passwords for the account that this lab will use later. You should receive a globally unique identifier (GUID) value as a response to this command:

  ```
  Add-KdsRootKey -EffectiveTime ((get-date).addhours(-10))
  ```

4. On the **Start** screen, click **Server Manager**.
5. In **Server Manager**, click **Manage**, and then click **Add Roles and Features**. If you receive a **Server Manager** message about collecting inventory data, click **OK**. Wait a minute, and then try this step again.
6. In the **Add Roles and Features Wizard**, on the **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.
7. On the **Select installation type** page, click **Role-based or feature-based installation**, and then click **Next**.
8. On the **Select destination server** page, click **Select a server from the server pool**, verify that the target computer is highlighted, and then click **Next**.
9. On the **Select server roles** page, click **Active Directory Federation Services**, and then click **Next**.
10. On the **Select features** page, click **Next**.
11. On the **Active Directory Federation Services \(AD FS\)** page, click **Next**.
12. On the **Confirm installation selections** page, click **Install**.
13. When installation completes, on the **Installation progress** page, click **Close**.
14. Click the exclamation point \(**\!**\) icon on the toolbar, and then click **Configure the federation service on this server**.
15. In the **Active Directory Federation Services Configuration Wizard**, on the **Welcome** page, click **Create the first federation server in a federation server farm**, and then click **Next**.
16. On the **Connect to Active Directory Domain Services** page, click **Next**.
17. On the **Specify Service Properties** page, use the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - For **SSL Certificate**, click the wildcard certificate that the hosting partner provided.
  - For **Federation Service Name**, type **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**, replacing **yourdomain** with your unique Adatum domain name.
  - For **Federation Service Display Name**, type **Adatum Corporation Web**.

18. On the **Specify Service Account** page, select the **Create a Group Managed Service Account** option, for **Account Name**, type **svc_ADFS1**, and then click **Next**.
19. On the **Specify Configuration Database** page, click **Create a database on this server using Windows Internal Database**, and then click **Next**.
20. On the **Confirm Overwrite** page, select **Overwrite existing AD FS configuration database data** and then click **Next**.
21. On the **Review Options** page, click **Next**.
22. After the prerequisites check is complete, on the **Pre-requisite Checks** page click **Configure**.
23. When the configuration completes, on the **Results** page, click **Close**. You can disregard warnings about SSL certificate.
24. Restart **LON-DS1**.
25. When the computer restarts, sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**


#### Task 4: Install and configure Web Application Proxy

1. If needed, sign in to the **LON-WAP1** virtual machine \(VM\) as **LON-WAP1\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**. If the Networks pane appears, click **Yes**.
2. On the **Start** menu, click **Server Manager**.
3. In **Server Manager**, click **Manage**, and then click **Add Roles and Features**.
4. In the **Add Roles and Features Wizard**, on the **Before You Begin** page, click **Next**.
5. On the **Select installation type** page, click **Role-based or feature-based installation**, and then click **Next**.
6. On the **Select destination server** page, click **Select a server from the server pool**, verify that the target computer is highlighted, and then click **Next**.
7. On the **Select server roles** page, click **Remote Access**, and then click **Next**.
8. On the **Select features** page, click **Next**.
9. On the **Remote Access** page, click **Next**.
10. On the **Select role services** page, click **Web Application Proxy**, in the pop-up window, if it appears, click **Add Features**, and then click **Next**.
11. On the **Confirm installation selections** page, click **Install**.
12. When the installation is complete, on the **Installation progress** page, click **Close**.
13. On **LON-WAP1**, click **Start**, type **Notepad**, right-click the **Notepad** icon, and then select **Run as Administrator**.
14. In the **Notepad** window, click **File**, click **Open**, and then browse to **C:\\Windows\\System32\\drivers\\etc**.
15. In the drop-down list box, select **All Files \(*.*\)**, click **hosts**, and then click **Open**.
16. In the **hosts-Notepad** window, at the end of the text, start a new line and add the following text: **_LON-DS1_IP_address yourdomain_**.hostdomain.com \(Note: instead of **_LON-DS1_IP_address_** type the IP address of LON-DS1 computer and replace yourdomain with your unique domain name\).
17. Save the changes and close hosts-Notepad window.
18. On **LON-WAP1**, in **Server Manager**, click **Tools**, and then click **Remote Access Management**.
19. In the **Remote Access Management console**, in the left navigation pane, click **Web Application Proxy**. In the middle navigation pane, click **Run the Web Application Proxy Configuration Wizard**.
20. In the **Web Application Proxy Configuration Wizard**, on the **Welcome** page, click **Next**.
21. On the **Federation Server** page, configure the following settings, and then click **Next**:

  - Federation service name: **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**, replacing **yourdomain** with your unique domain name
  - Username: **Adatum\\Administrator**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

22. On the **AD FS Proxy Certificate** page, select the **\*.hostdomain.com** certificate, and then click **Next**.
23. On the **Confirmation** page, click **Configure**.
24. When the configuration is complete, on the **Results** page, click **Close**.
25. Switch to the **LON-DS1** VM.
26. In **Server Manager**, click **Tools**, and then click **Event Viewer**.
27. In **Event Viewer**, in the details pane, expand **Applications and Services Logs**, expand **AD FS**, and then click **Admin**.
28. In the **Event ID** column, verify that event ID **100** displays.

  > **Note:** If you have configured the federation server properly, you should see a new event with Event ID 100 in the Event Viewer Application log. This event verifies that the federation server proxy could communicate successfully with the Federation Service.

29. On **LON-DC1**, open Internet Explorer, connect to **https://_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com/adfs/fs/federationserverservice.asmx**, replacing **yourdomain** with your unique domain name, and then press Enter.
30. If you receive a message stating "There is a problem with this website's security certificate," click **Continue to this website**.

> **Note:** The expected output is a display of XML with the service description document. If this page displays, then Microsoft Internet Information Services \(IIS\) on the federation server is operational and serving pages successfully.


#### Task 5: Configure a domain for SSO

1. Switch to **LON-DS1**, click **Start**, right click on **Windows PowerShell** and then click on **Run as Administrator**.
2. At the Windows PowerShell command-line interface command prompt, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  Import-Module MSOnline
  ```

3. At the Windows PowerShell command-line interface command prompt, type the following command and then press Enter:

  ```
  Set-ExecutionPolicy 
  Unrestricted -force
  ```

4. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, enter the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  $msolcred = Get-Credential
  ```

5. In the **Windows PowerShell Credential** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then select **OK**:

  - Username: **Beth\@ Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**
  - Password: _your password_

6. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, enter the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Connect-MsolService -Credential $msolcred
  ```

7. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, enter the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolDomain
  ```

8. Verify that your lab domain, **_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com**, is listed as **Verified and Managed**.

  > **Note:** If you run this from a computer other than the AD FS federation server, you will need to use the **Set-MsolAdfsContext** cmdlet to reference the AD FS server.

9. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, enter the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Convert-MsolDomainToFederated -DomainName yourdomain.hostdomain.com
  ```

10. Verify that you receive a "Successfully updated _yourdomain_.hostdomain.com domain" message.
11. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, enter the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolFederationProperty -DomainName yourdomain.hostdomain.com
  ```

  > **Note:** This command reports the status of the domain federation, and it provides details of URLs and certificates.

12. Leave Windows PowerShell window open.


#### Task 6: Verify AD FS and SSO functionality

1. On LON-CL1, open a web browser.
2. In the **Address** bar, enter **https://portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.
3. On the **Office365** page, enter **Annie\@_yourdomain_.hostdomain.com** for the user name, and then select **Next**.
4. Verify that you redirect to the **Adatum Corporation Web** sign-in page.
5. Sign in by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.
6. If **Stay signed in?** prompt appears, click **No**.
7. Ensure that you are signed in to Office 365 home page, and then close the web browser.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured SSO with AD FS.


## Exercise 2: Deploy pass-through authentication for SSO
  
#### Task 1: Configure pass-through authentication and seamless SSO

1. On **LON-DS1**, if required, sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. On the desktop of **LON-DS1**, double-click **Azure AD Connect**.
3. In the **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** window, select **Configure**.
4. On the **Additional tasks** page, select **Change user sign-in**, and then select **Next**.
5. On the **Connect to Azure AD** page, enter the credentials of your Office 365 global admin account, and then select **Next**.
6. On the **User sign-in** page, select **Pass-through authentication**, and then select **Enable single sign-on**. Select **Next**.
7. On the **Enable single sign-on** page, select the **Enter credentials** button.
8. In the **Windows Security** window, enter **Administrator** and **Pa55w.rd**. Select **OK**, and then select **Next**.
9. On the **Ready to configure** page, select **Configure**. Then, wait until the configuration phase is completed.
10. On the **Configuration complete** page, select **Exit**. You can disregard warning about ports.
11. Restore Windows PowerShell window on LON-DS1.
12. At the Windows PowerShell command prompt, enter the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Convert-MsolDomainToStandard -DomainName yourdomain.hostdomain.com
  ```

13. When prompted for **PasswordFile** type**test** and press Enter.
14. When prompted for **SkipUserConversion** value, just press **enter** and wait for a few minutes until you receive command prompt back.
15. Switch to **LON-DC1**. In Server Manager, open **Group Policy Management** from **Tools**.
16. Expand **Forest:Adatum.com \> Domains \> Adatum.com** and then right-click **Default Domain Policy**, and then select **Edit**.
17. In **Group Policy Management Editor**, browse to **User Configuration** &gt;**Policies** &gt;**Administrative Templates** &gt; **Windows Components** &gt; **Internet Explorer** &gt; **Internet Control Panel** &gt; **Security Page**, select **Site to Zone Assignment List**, and then double-click it.
18. In the **Site to Zone Assignment List** window, select **Enabled**, and then select **Show**.
19. Enter **https://autologon.microsoftazuread-sso.com** in the **Value name** box, and then enter **1** in the **Value** box. Select **OK** two times.
20. In **Group Policy Management Editor**, navigate to **User Configuration** &gt; **Administrative Templates** &gt; **Windows Components** &gt; **Internet Explorer** &gt; **Internet Control Panel** &gt; **Security Page** &gt;**Intranet Zone**, select **Allow updates to status bar via script**, and then double-click it.
21. Select **Enabled**, and then select **OK**.
22. Close **Group Policy Management Editor** and the **Group Policy Management** console.


#### Task 2: Verify pass-through authentication and SSO functionality

1. On **LON-DS1**, open Internet Explorer and browse to **https://portal.azure.com**.
2. Sign in with your global admin account for your Office 365 tenant.
3. Navigate to the **Azure Active Directory** item in the left navigation pane, and then select it.
4. In the middle navigation pane, select **Azure AD Connect**.
5. In the right pane, in the **USER SIGN-IN** section, verify that **Seamless single sign-on** and **Pass-through authentication** have value **Enabled**. Also, verify that **Federation** has value **Disabled**.
6. Select **Pass-through authentication**.
7. In the **Pass-through authentication** window, verify that you see your server where the Authentication Agent is installed with the STATUS **Active**.
8. Close the **Pass-through authentication** window.
9. Select **Seamless single sign-on**.
10. In the **Seamless single sign-on** window, verify that you see a green check mark next to your domain name.
11. Close the **Azure** portal.
12. Open an InPrivate window in Internet Explorer and browse to **portal.office.com**.
13. Sign in as **Aidan\@yourdomain.hostdomain.com**, and then select **Next**.
14. On the **Enter password** page, enter the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then select **Sign in**.
15. Verify that you are signed in to the Office 365 portal. This confirms that pass-through authentication works.
16. Close Internet Explorer.
17. Switch to **LON-CL1**, sign out and then sign in as **Aidan\@Adatum.com** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.
18. Open an InPrivate window in Internet Explorer and browse to **https://portal.office.com**. When prompted for username, type **Aidan\@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** and click **Next**.
19. Verify that you can access the Office 365 portal without typing a password. This confirms that seamless SSO is working.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured pass-through authentication and seamless SSO.


©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
