# Module 6: SharePoint and OneDrive for Business hybrid deployment
# Lab: Implement SharePoint and OneDrive for Business in a hybrid configuration
  
### Scenario
You are the SharePoint administrator for a company called Adatum Corporation. Your company has run SharePoint Server on-premises to provide an intranet for cross-team communications and collaboration, along with on-premises personal file storage with OneDrive for Business. Adatum is considering moving to SharePoint Online so that they can better use the financial and feature benefits of Office 365. The company would like to evaluate the user experience and capabilities of SharePoint Online before committing to a full move to SharePoint Online.

Adatum has decided to implement a hybrid configuration of SharePoint Online with their existing on-premises SharePoint Server 2016 deployment as a pilot project. You oversee planning and deploying the hybrid SharePoint infrastructure. As part of this pilot project, you will deploy hybrid sites, hybrid OneDrive for Business, and cloud hybrid search.

### Objectives
After completing the lab, you will be able to:

- Design and prepare a SharePoint Server for a hybrid configuration.
- Deploy SharePoint sites in a hybrid configuration.
- Validate the SharePoint services functionality in a hybrid configuration.

> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Office 365. Microsoft Worldwide Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
Estimated time: 70 minutes

Virtual machines: **10984B-LON-DC1**, **10984B-LON-SP1**, **10984B-LON-CL1**, and **10984B-LON-CL2**

Username: **Adatum\\Administrator**, **Adatum\\Beth**, and **Adatum\\Allan**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

This lab requires the following virtual machines:

- **10984B-LON-DC1**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **10984B-LON-SP1**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **10984B-LON-CL1**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\\Beth** using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **10984B-LON-CL2**
  - Sign in as **Adatum\\Allan** using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

> **Note:** It can take a long time for the cloud search service results to appear in SharePoint Online. When validating hybrid site functionality, especially hybrid cloud search, you may need to wait several hours.


## Exercise 1: Design and prepare SharePoint Server for a hybrid configuration
  
### Scenario
Before deploying hybrid SharePoint, you need to design the solution, verify prerequisites, and perform preparation steps on your SharePoint Server and your Office 365 tenant. For your pilot project, you will use the **10984B-LON-SP1** on-premises single-server SharePoint Server farm, which hosts the IT department's SharePoint team site, My Sites and OneDrive. You also have an Office 365 Enterprise E5 trial subscription. The subscription is activated, your custom domain has been added to Office 365, and user account federation has been configured.


The following services should be configured in the SharePoint Server farm, but you must verify that they are configured correctly:

- Managed Metadata
- My Site
- User Profiles

As part of your pilot, you will configure the hybrid SharePoint solution to work with these services. You will also make it possible for the IT department users to view search results that include both on-premises and cloud-based content when they search from SharePoint Online. The IT department users are all hybrid users with both local and Office 365 accounts. You do not want to add devices or make other changes to your network at this time. For the purposes of the pilot, you will not configure hybrid content types or taxonomy term groups.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Design a hybrid solution
2.  Verify prerequisites for hybrid scenario
3.  Prepare on-premises and cloud infrastructure for hybrid scenario


#### Task 1: Design a hybrid solution

1.  Read the exercise scenario.
2.  Using the information provided in the earlier planning topics, answer the following questions:

  - What hybrid search configuration is required to support the pilot scenario?
  - What Office 365 or SharePoint Online subscriptions will not support the pilot scenario?
  - What SharePoint hybrid feature set supports the pilot scenario?
  - What SharePoint Server 2016 version is supported by the pilot scenario?
  - What services need to be configured in the on-premises SharePoint Server farm?


#### Task 2: Verify prerequisites for hybrid scenario
  
- Review the earlier topics, identify the prerequisites for each scenario, and answer the following questions:

  - What prerequisites do hybrid sites have?
  - What prerequisites does hybrid OneDrive for Business have?
  - What prerequisites does hybrid cloud search have?
  - How can you verify the configuration of Managed Metadata, My Site, and Users Profile services in SharePoint Server?


#### Task 3: Prepare on-premises and cloud infrastructure for hybrid scenario

**Install online service management tools**

1.  On **LON-SP1**, sign in by using the following credentials:

  - Username: **Administrator**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
  - Domain: **Adatum**

2.  Download and install the **Microsoft Online Sign-in Assistant** from **https://aka.ms/AA216y6**.

3.  Download and install the **SharePoint Online management Shell** from **https://aka.ms/AA21ej5**.

4.  Restart LON-SP1 and sign in.

5.  Open Windows PowerShell ISE as an administrator and run the following commands to download the **MSOnline PowerShell for Azure Active Directory** module and import all of the tools into Windows PowerShell:

    ```
    Install-Module -Name MSOnline 
    ```

    ```
    Add-PSSnapin Microsoft.SharePoint.PowerShell
    ```

    ```
    Import-Module Microsoft.PowerShell.Utility
    ```

    ```
    Import-Module MSOnline -force
    ```

    > **Note:** If prompted to install a Nu Get package, confirm the installation, including confirming installation from an untrusted source.

6. In the Windows PowerShell ISE command prompt, type **connect-msolservice**, and then press ENTER.
7. Enter the user name **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** and the password you created in Module 1.


**Configure server-to-server authentication**

1.  Open Windows PowerShell ISE as an administrator.
2.  Open the file **C:\\labfiles\\mod06\\s2s.txt** in Notepad.
3.  Copy the contents into the Windows PowerShell ISE script pane.
4.  Replace the text **<public\_root\_domain\_name\>.com** with the value provided in the lab interface (for example ***.hostdomain.com**).
5.  Run the script.

**Configure Microsoft SharePoint Foundation Subscription Settings Service**

1. On LON-SP1, in Central Administration, select **Manage Services in this farm**.
2. Enable **Microsoft SharePoint Foundation Subscription Settings Service**.

**Create Subscription Settings service application and proxy**

- Use the following Windows PowerShell commands to create a Subscription Settings service application and proxy:

    ```
    $sa = New-SPSubscriptionSettingsServiceApplication -ApplicationPool 'SharePoint Web Services System' -Name 'Adatum Subscriptions Settings SA' 
    ```

    ```
    New-SPSubscriptionSettingsServiceApplicationProxy -ServiceApplication $sa
    ```

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have:
>  - Designed your hybrid solution.
>  - Verified prerequisites for the hybrid scenarios that you will enable.
>  - Prepare on-premises and cloud infrastructure for those hybrid scenarios.


## Exercise 2: Deploy SharePoint services in a hybrid configuration
  
### Scenario
  After you have prepared your environment for the hybrid solution, you want to deploy the hybrid services. You will deploy hybrid sites and hybrid cloud search at the same time and then configure OneDrive for Business.


The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Deploy and configure hybrid sites and hybrid cloud search
2.  Configure hybrid OneDrive for Business


#### Task 1: Deploy and configure hybrid sites and hybrid cloud search

1.  On **LON-SP1**, in **Internet Explorer**, open the Office 365 Admin center as **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**.
2.  Open the SharePoint Admin Center.
3.  Select **More features**, and then under **Hybrid picker**, click **Open**, and then open the **Go to Hybrid Picker Download Page** link.
4.  Download and install the application.

    > **Note:** If the Hybrid Picker Download Page does not open, in a new tab, navigate to [https://aka.ms/AA3696u](https://aka.ms/AA3696u).

5.  When the **SharePoint Hybrid Configuration Wizard** page opens, select **Next**.
6. On the **Credentials** page, in **Username**, enter **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, and then select **Validate Credentials**.
7. In the **Password** box, type the password that you created in Module 1 and select **Sign in**.
8. Select **Close**, and then select **Next**.
9.  Select **Next** on the **Checking prerequisites** page.
10.  Under **Which features do you want to configure**, select:

  - Hybrid OneDrive
  - Hybrid sites

11.  Clear the selection for:

  - Hybrid business to business (B2B) sites
  - Hybrid app launcher
  - Hybrid search

12.  Complete and close the **Hybrid Picker Wizard**.
17. Switch to Windows PowerShell ISE and at the command prompt, enter the command **IISReset**.


**Configure cloud hybrid search**

1.  Switch to Windows PowerShell ISE.
2.  Navigate to **C:\\labfiles\\mod06\\**, and then select **CreateCloudSSA.txt**.
3.  Replace the contents of the Windows PowerShell ISE script pane with the contents of **CreateCloudSSA.txt**.
4.  Run the script with the following parameters:

  - SearchServerName: **LON-SP1**
  - SearchServiceAccount: **Adatum\\SPSearch**
  - SearchServiceAppName: **AdatumCloudSearch**
  - DatabaseServerName: **LON-SP1**

    >**Note:** If the script appears to hang, click inside the PowerShell section of the ISE window and press the Enter key once or twice to refresh. 

5.  Navigate to **C:\\labfiles\\mod06\\**, and then open **Onboard-CloudHybridSearch.txt**.
6.  Replace the contents of the Windows PowerShell ISE script pane with the contents of **Onboard-CloudHybridSearch.txt**.
7.  Run the script with the following parameters:

  - PortalUrl: **https://Adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com**
  - Username: **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**.
  - Password: The password you created in Module 1.

    > **Note:** Errors can appear while running the scripts due to network issues. If errors appear, rerun the scripts. You can run them multiple times safely.


**Start a search crawl**

1.  Select **Start**, and under **Microsoft SharePoint 2019 Products**, select **SharePoint 2019 Central Administration**.
2.  Select **Manage Service Applications**.
3.  Select the Search Service Application: **AdatumCloudSearch**.
4.  Update the **Local SharePoint sites** content source with the crawl schedule:

  - Start addresses: **http://mysites.adatum.com** and **http://sharepoint.adatum.com**
  - Continuous crawl: Default schedule
  - Full crawl: **Daily** with **Repeat within the day** with default settings.

  5. Stat all crawls


#### Task 2: Configure hybrid OneDrive for Business

**Configure user permissions**

1.  On **LON-SP1**, open **SharePoint 2019 Central Administration**.
2.  Open the **User Profile Service Application** page under **Manage Service Applications**.
3.  Create the following new audience:

  - Name: **SharePoint Hybrid Pilot**
  - Rules **Satisfy all of the rules**
  - Property: **Department**
  - Operator: **=**
  - Value: **IT**

4.  On the **Office 365** page, select **Configure hybrid OneDrive and Sites features** with the following settings:

  - Audience: **SharePoint Hybrid Pilot**.
  - Features: **OneDrive and Sites**

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have:
>  - Deployed and configured hybrid sites and hybrid cloud search.
>  - Configured hybrid OneDrive for Business.


## Exercise 3: Validate the SharePoint services functionality in a hybrid configuration
  
### Scenario
Now that the SharePoint hybrid services that you have configured are running, you need to verify their functionality from the user side.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Validate hybrid sites functionality
2.  Validate OneDrive for Business in hybrid
3.  Validate hybrid cloud search functionality
4.  Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Validate hybrid sites functionality

1.  Switch to **LON-CL1** and sign in as **Beth Burke**.
2.  In **Microsoft Edge**, open **http://sharepoint.adatum.com**.
3.  Sign in as Beth Burke.
4.  Follow the site, and then select **SharePoint** from the app launcher.
5.  Sign in as Beth Burke.
6.  Verify that **Sites** redirects to your **My Site** on SharePoint Online, and that the on-premises SharePoint site is listed as a site you follow.
7.  Switch to **LON-CL2** and sign in with the following credentials:

  - Username: **Allan**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
  - Domain: **Adatum**

8.  In **Microsoft Edge**, open **http://sharepoint.adatum.com**.
9.  Sign in as Allan Yoo.
10.  Follow the site, and then select **SharePoint** from the app launcher.

    >**Note:** If prompted, select **Get started** on the **Wait a minute** dialog box.

11.  Sign in as Allan Yoo.

  > **Note**: If you receive a welcome page, select **Next** to close it.
  
12.  Verify that **My Sites** opens in SharePoint Server and that the on-premises SharePoint site is listed as a site that you follow.


#### Task 2: Validate OneDrive for Business in hybrid

1.  Switch to **LON-CL1**.
2.  In **Microsoft Edge**, open **http://sharepoint.adatum.com**.
3.  Select the app launcher, and then select **OneDrive**.
4.  Verify that the link opens OneDrive for Business in Office 365.

    > **Note:** You will be prompted to sign in with the Office 365 credentials for Beth Burke.
    >  - Username: **Beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**.
    >  - Password: The password you created in Module 1.

    > If a welcome screen appears, close it.

5.  Switch to **LON-CL2**.
6.  Open **Microsoft Edge** and go to **http://sharepoint.adatum.com**.
7.  Select the app launcher, and then select **OneDrive**.
8.  Verify that the link opens OneDrive for Business in SharePoint Server.


#### Task 3: Validate hybrid cloud search functionality
  
1.  Switch to **LON-CL1**.
2.  Open **Microsoft Edge** and go to **http://adatumyyxxxxx.sharepoint.com**.
3.  Sign in as **Beth@adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**. Use the password that you created in Module 1.
4.  In the search box, type **Document**, and then press **Enter**.
5.  Verify that the results include content from both the on-premises SharePoint Server farm and SharePoint Online.
6.  In the **Search** box type **IsExternalContent:1** and press **ENTER**.
7.  Verify that the results include only content from SharePoint Server.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the lab in the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have:
>  - Validated hybrid sites functionality.
>  - Validated hybrid OneDrive for Business redirection.
>  - Validated hybrid cloud search functionality.



### Review question(s)
  

**Question** 

If the scenario required displaying search results from both environments in both SharePoint Server and SharePoint Online, what change would have to make to your network? 

**Question** 

What additional steps related to the search experience should you take if you decide to proceed with moving to SharePoint Online?


©2019 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
