Instructions/10984A_LAB_01.md, before:

﻿# Module 1: Introduction to Office 365 administration and licensing
# Lab: Provisioning and configuring an Office 365 tenant
  
### Scenario

Adatum Corporation is considering moving some of the core on-premises services such as Exchange Server, Skype for Business Server, and SharePoint Server, to Office 365. The project steering committee needs to ensure that Office 365 can provide the required functionality and accommodate the corporate security and compliance requirements. To get started, Adatum Corporation has decided to begin a pilot deployment of Office 365 in a hybrid configuration for a group of users.

As one of the most experienced IT admins at Adatum Corporation, you are responsible for implementing the pilot hybrid project. To begin, you need to configure the Office 365 tenant, and then configure the custom domain that your organization uses. You also need to ensure that you are comfortable with the Office 365 administrator interfaces.

### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure an Office 365 trial tenant.
- Explore the Office 365 administrator interfaces.

> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Office 365. Microsoft Worldwide Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not provided in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup

Estimated time: 75 minutes

Virtual machines: **10984A-LON-DC1**, **10984A-LON-WAP1**, and **10984A-LON-CL1**

Username: **LON-WAP1\Administrator**, **Adatum\\Administrator**, and **Adatum\\Beth**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

This course uses the Office 365 Admin center for all labs.

In all tasks:

- Where you see references to **Adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replace **Adatumyyxxxx** with your unique Office 365 Name displayed in the online lab portal.
- Where you see references to **Adatumyyxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replace the **Adatumyyxxxx** with your unique hostdomain.com name displayed in the online lab portal.

This lab requires the following virtual machines (use only the VMs required for your lab):

- **LON-DC1**
  - Sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-WAP1**
  - Sign in as **LON-WAP1\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-CL1**
  - Sign in as **Adatum\\Beth** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.


## Exercise 1: Configuring on-premise DNS
  
### Scenario
  Before beginning the lab, you will need to configure on-premises DNS settings for Microsoft Exchange and Microsoft Skype for Business. The DNS settings are unique for each student in the lab environment and you will need to configure them before beginning the lab. Configuring DNS for the on-premises environment is not covered in this course.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Configure DNS for the on-premises environment
2.  Configure DNS on the on-premises web application server


#### Task 1: Configure DNS for the on-premises environment

1.  On **LON-DC1**, sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Select **Start**.
3.  Right-click the **Windows PowerShell ISE** tile, select**More**, then select **Run as administrator**.
4.  On the task bar, select **File Explorer**.
5.  In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod01\\**.
6.  Double-click the file **DC1DNS.txt**.
7.  Copy the contents of the file **DC1DNS.txt** into the Windows PowerShell ISE **Script** pane.
8.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, select **Run Script**.
9.  When prompted, enter the unique domain name provided by your lab provider. (for example: **Adatumyyxxxx.hostdomain.com**)
10.  When prompted, enter the IP address for the Web Application Server as provided by your lab provider.


#### Task 2: Configure DNS on the on-premises web application server

1.  Switch to **LON-WAP1** and sign in as **LON-WAP1\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Select **Start**.
3.  Right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, select **More**, then select **Run as administrator**.
4.  On the task bar, select **File Explorer**.
5.  In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod01\\**.
6.  Double-click the file **WAP1DNS.txt**.
7.  Copy the contents of the file **WAP1DNS.txt** into the Windows PowerShell ISE **Script** pane.
8.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, select **Run Script**.
9.  When prompted, enter the unique domain name provided by your lab provider.
10.  When prompted, enter the public IP address of the web application server **LON-WAP1** provided by your lab provider.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured DNS for the on-premises environment in anticipation of completing the labs.


## Exercise 2: Configuring an Office 365 trial tenant
  
### Scenario
The first step in starting the pilot deployment is to configure the Office 365 tenant. You need to create a new tenant by using the **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** domain name. You will also need to verify ownership of the custom domain**Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

> **Note:** For simplicity, this lab uses an ordinary Office 365 trial account, not a FastTrack pilot extended tenant account. Also, note that you need to create an account with a unique name in the form**Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**. You can use the alphanumeric value for **yyxxxxx** that is provided for you in the lab interface.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Provision an Office 365 E5 trial tenant and global admin account
2.  Add a custom domain and verify ownership
3.  Complete the custom domain setup 
4.  Verify Office 365 service health


#### Task 1: Provision an Office 365 E5 trial tenant and global admin account

1.  On **LON-CL1**, sign in as **Adatum\\Beth** with the password of**Pa55w.rd**, open **Microsoft Edge**, and go to the following URL: [https://aka.ms/AA21ej6](https://aka.ms/AA21ej6)
      
2.  Sign up for a free trail using the following information:

  - Country: **United States**
  - First name: **Beth**
  - Last name: **Burke**
  - Business email address: (use the new Microsoft account that you created for this course).
  - Business phone number: Your mobile phone number, including international code for your current country.
  - Company name: **Adatum**
  - Your organization size: **50-249 people**

3.  Create a unique domain for the company name to use in the course. Use the **Adatumyyxxxxx** name provided in the lab interface. In addition, you will need to create and confirm a unique password. (Be sure to write this down, as you will use it later. For the rest of the fields, use the following information:

  - Username: **Beth**
  - Company name: **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** (where **_yyxxxxx_** is your unique Adatum number)

4.  Confirm your identity using your mobile phone by having Office 365 text you a verification code.
5.  Wait until the Office 365 tenant is provisioned, and then select **Start Setup**.
6.  On the Office 365 Admin page, click **Go to setup**.

> **Note:** During setup of Office 365, you may receive a variety of welcome or tour pages. Close them if they appear.


#### Task 2: Add a custom domain and verify ownership

1.  On the **Personalize your sign-in and email** page, enter the name of the custom domain you were provided in the lab interface.
2.  Write down the **TXT** record shown in the **TXT value** column. This entry will be similar to MS=ms*XXXXXXXX*. Record this value below: MS=\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
3.  Switch to **LON-DC1** and configure the following forward lookup zone:

  - Name: **Adatum_yyxxxxx_.hostdomain.com**
  - Resource record type: **Text (TXT)**
  - Text: **MS=ms*XXXXXXXX*** (recorded in step 2)

4.  Create the following A name record:

  - **Name**: The name of the external name server as displayed by the lab hosting provider.
  - **IP Address**: The IP address of the external name server as provided by the lab hosting provider.

5.  Modify the **Start of Authority (SOA)** record and replace the**Primary Server** reference with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the lab hosting provider.
6.  Modify the **Name Server (NS)** record and replace the**Server** reference with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the Lab hosting provider. Verify that the name server resolves and validates.
7.  Switch back to **LON-CL1** and in the Microsoft 365 Admin center, select**Verify**.


#### Task 3: Complete the custom domain setup

1.  On the **Add new users** page, select**Got it, thanks** and on the next page, select**Next**.
2.  On the **Install your Office apps** page, select**Next**.
3.  On the **Migrate email messages** page, select**Next**.
4.  On the **Choose your online services** page, verify that**Exchange** is selected, select**Skype for Business**, and then select **Next**.
5.  On the **Add DNS Records** page, click**Verify** and review the errors. The errors are expected as the online records will not be used for a hybrid configuration.
6.  Click **Exit and continue later**.


#### Task 4: Verify Office 365 service health

1.  Select **Health** on the left-hand menu, and then select **Service health** to display the Service health dashboard.
2.  In the details pane, view the status of the Microsoft 365 services. If any services are showing a status other than **Service is healthy**, select the service.
3.  Review any service interruption records or additional information in the status page.
4.  Close **Microsoft Edge**.
5.  If prompted, select **Close all**.

> **Note:** During Microsoft testing, occasionally, Office 365 might not successfully create the trial tenant. As a result, the tenant will not have all the services available to it. If this happens, create a new trial tenant using a different business email (Microsoft account).

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have provisioned an Office 365 E5 trial tenant and global admin account. You will have added a custom domain and verified ownership. You will have completed the custom domain setup including DNS records and verified Office 365 services health.


## Exercise 3: Exploring the Microsoft 365 admin interfaces
  
### Scenario
To familiarize yourself with the Microsoft 365 administrator portals and to familiarize yourself with the default Office 365 configuration, you need to explore the Microsoft 365 administrator interfaces.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Explore the Microsoft 365 admin center
2.  Explore the Exchange admin center
3.  Explore the Skype for Business admin center
4.  Explore the SharePoint admin center
5.  Explore the Microsoft OneDrive admin center
6.  Explore the Azure AD admin center
7.  Explore the Security &amp; Compliance admin center
8.  Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Explore the Microsoft 365 admin center
  

1.  On **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge and then browse to **http://portal.office.com**.
2.  Sign in as **Beth** using the configured username and password. Close any prompts that appear.
3.  Click the **App Launcher** and then click **Admin**.
4.  On the left navigation menu, expand the menu and then scroll down to explore all available items, expanding items such as **Users**, **Groups**, and **Settings**.
5.  On the left navigation menu, expand **Users**, and then select **Active users**.
6.  Review the users list.
7.  On the left navigation menu, expand **Health**, and then select **Message center**.
8.  In the right pane, review any messages.
9.  Do not close the browser window.


#### Task 2: Explore the Exchange admin center
  
1.  On the left navigation menu, expand **Admin centers**, and then select **Exchange**. A new tab opens displaying **Exchange admin center**.
2.  On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.


#### Task 3: Explore the Skype for Business admin center
  
1.  Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2.  On the left navigation menu, under **Admin centers**, select **Skype for Business**.
3.  Verify that a new tab opens displaying **Skype for Business admin center**.
4.  On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.

> **Note:** Depending on your tenant, the Admin center might be titled**Teams &amp; Skype**.


#### Task 4: Explore the SharePoint admin center
  
1.  Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2.  On the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **SharePoint**.
3.  Verify that a new tab opens displaying the **SharePoint admin center**.
4.  On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results that display in the right pane.


#### Task 5: Explore the Microsoft OneDrive admin center  

1.  Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2.  On the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **OneDrive**.
3.  A new tab opens displaying **OneDrive admin center**.
4.  On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results that display in the right pane.


#### Task 6: Explore the Azure AD admin center
  
1.  Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2.  On the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **Azure Active Directory**.
3.  Verify that a new tab opens displaying **Azure Active Directory admin center**. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.


#### Task 7: Explore the Security &amp; Compliance admin center
  
1.  Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2.  On the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **Security &amp; Compliance**.
3.  Verify that a new tab opens displaying **Security &amp; Compliance**.
4.  On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and then review the results displayed in the right pane.
5.  Close **Microsoft Edge**.


#### Task 8: Prepare for the next module
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the lab in the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have explored the following Office 365 interfaces:
>  - Microsoft 365 admin center
>  - Exchange admin center
>  - Teams and Skype for Business admin center
>  - SharePoint admin center
>  - OneDrive admin center
>  - Azure AD admin center
>  - Security and Compliance admin center



### Review question(s)
  

**Question** 
Why is it important to specify the correct country/region when you set up an Office 365 account?

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

Commit message:

Updated for UI Changes.
-Corrected formatting issues with missing spaces.
-Added step to close PowerShell ISE window at end Exercise 1, Tasks 1 and 2.
-Added note for Exercise 2, Task 2 regarding external DNS.
-Updated Exercise 3, Task 3 to match UI change for Microsoft Teams.
-Updated Exercise 3, Task 6 to match UI.

Instructions/10984A_LAB_01.md, after:

# Module 1: Introduction to Office 365 administration and licensing
# Lab: Provisioning and configuring an Office 365 tenant
  
### Scenario

Adatum Corporation is considering moving some of the core on-premises services such as Exchange Server, Skype for Business Server, and SharePoint Server, to Office 365. The project steering committee needs to ensure that Office 365 can provide the required functionality and accommodate the corporate security and compliance requirements. To get started, Adatum Corporation has decided to begin a pilot deployment of Office 365 in a hybrid configuration for a group of users.

As one of the most experienced IT admins at Adatum Corporation, you are responsible for implementing the pilot hybrid project. To begin, you need to configure the Office 365 tenant, and then configure the custom domain that your organization uses. You also need to ensure that you are comfortable with the Office 365 administrator interfaces.

### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure an Office 365 trial tenant.
- Explore the Office 365 administrator interfaces.

> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Office 365. Microsoft Worldwide Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not provided in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup

Estimated time: 75 minutes

Virtual machines: **10984A-LON-DC1**, **10984A-LON-WAP1**, and **10984A-LON-CL1**

Username: **LON-WAP1\Administrator**, **Adatum\\Administrator**, and **Adatum\\Beth**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

This course uses the Office 365 Admin center for all labs.

In all tasks:

- Where you see references to **Adatumyyxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**, replace **Adatumyyxxxx** with your unique Office 365 Name displayed in the online lab portal.
- Where you see references to **Adatumyyxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replace the **Adatumyyxxxx** with your unique hostdomain.com name displayed in the online lab portal.

This lab requires the following virtual machines (use only the VMs required for your lab):

- **LON-DC1**
  - Sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-WAP1**
  - Sign in as **LON-WAP1\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-CL1**
  - Sign in as **Adatum\\Beth** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.


## Exercise 1: Configuring on-premise DNS
  
### Scenario
  Before beginning the lab, you will need to configure on-premises DNS settings for Microsoft Exchange and Microsoft Skype for Business. The DNS settings are unique for each student in the lab environment and you will need to configure them before beginning the lab. Configuring DNS for the on-premises environment is not covered in this course.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Configure DNS for the on-premises environment
2.  Configure DNS on the on-premises web application server


#### Task 1: Configure DNS for the on-premises environment

1.  On **LON-DC1**, sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Select **Start**.
3.  Right-click the **Windows PowerShell ISE** tile, select **More**, then select **Run as administrator**.
4.  On the task bar, select **File Explorer**.
5.  In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod01\\**.
6.  Double-click the file **DC1DNS.txt**.
7.  Copy the contents of the file **DC1DNS.txt** into the Windows PowerShell ISE **Script** pane.
8.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, select **Run Script**.
9.  When prompted, enter the unique domain name provided by your lab provider. (for example: **Adatumyyxxxx.hostdomain.com**)
10.  When prompted, enter the IP address for the Web Application Server as provided by your lab provider.
11.  Close the PowerShell ISE window.



#### Task 2: Configure DNS on the on-premises web application server

1.  Switch to **LON-WAP1** and sign in as **LON-WAP1\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Select **Start**.
3.  Right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, select **More**, then select **Run as administrator**.
4.  On the task bar, select **File Explorer**.
5.  In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod01\\**.
6.  Double-click the file **WAP1DNS.txt**.
7.  Copy the contents of the file **WAP1DNS.txt** into the Windows PowerShell ISE **Script** pane.
8.  In Windows PowerShell ISE, select **Run Script**.
9.  When prompted, enter the unique domain name provided by your lab provider.
10.  When prompted, enter the public IP address of the web application server **LON-WAP1** provided by your lab provider.
11.  Close the PowerShell ISE window.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured DNS for the on-premises environment in anticipation of completing the labs.


## Exercise 2: Configuring an Office 365 trial tenant
  
### Scenario
The first step in starting the pilot deployment is to configure the Office 365 tenant. You need to create a new tenant by using the **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** domain name. You will also need to verify ownership of the custom domain **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.

> **Note:** For simplicity, this lab uses an ordinary Office 365 trial account, not a FastTrack pilot extended tenant account. Also, note that you need to create an account with a unique name in the form **Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**. You can use the alphanumeric value for **yyxxxxx** that is provided for you in the lab interface.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Provision an Office 365 E5 trial tenant and global admin account
2.  Add a custom domain and verify ownership
3.  Complete the custom domain setup 
4.  Verify Office 365 service health


#### Task 1: Provision an Office 365 E5 trial tenant and global admin account

1.  On **LON-CL1**, sign in as **Adatum\\Beth** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**, open **Microsoft Edge**, and go to the following URL: [https://aka.ms/AA21ej6](https://aka.ms/AA21ej6)
      
2.  Sign up for a free trail using the following information:

  - Country: **United States**
  - First name: **Beth**
  - Last name: **Burke**
  - Business email address: (use the new Microsoft account that you created for this course).
  - Business phone number: Your mobile phone number, including international code for your current country.
  - Company name: **Adatum**
  - Your organization size: **50-249 people**

3.  Create a unique domain for the company name to use in the course. Use the **Adatumyyxxxxx** name provided in the lab interface. In addition, you will need to create and confirm a unique password. (Be sure to write this down, as you will use it later. For the rest of the fields, use the following information:

  - Username: **Beth**
  - Company name: **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** (where **_yyxxxxx_** is your unique Adatum number)

4.  Confirm your identity using your mobile phone by having Office 365 text you a verification code.
5.  Wait until the Office 365 tenant is provisioned, and then select **Start Setup**.
6.  On the Office 365 Admin page, click **Go to setup**.

> **Note:** During setup of Office 365, you may receive a variety of welcome or tour pages. Close them if they appear.


#### Task 2: Add a custom domain and verify ownership

> **Note:** If you were not provided an external name server by the lab hosting provider, skip steps 4-6 to use LON-DC1 as your public DNS server.

1.  On the **Personalize your sign-in and email** page, enter the name of the custom domain you were provided in the lab interface for example Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com.
2.  Write down the **TXT** record shown in the **TXT value** column. This entry will be similar to MS=ms*XXXXXXXX*. Record this value below: MS=\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
3.  Switch to **LON-DC1** and configure the following forward lookup zone:

  - Name: **Adatum_yyxxxxx_.hostdomain.com**
  - Resource record type: **Text (TXT)**
  - Text: **MS=msXXXXXXXX** (recorded in step 2)

4.  Create the following A name record:

  - **Name**: The name of the external name server as displayed by the lab hosting provider.
  - **IP Address**: The IP address of the external name server as provided by the lab hosting provider.

5.  Modify the **Start of Authority (SOA)** record and replace the**Primary Server** reference with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the lab hosting provider.
6.  Modify the **Name Server (NS)** record and replace the **Server** reference with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the Lab hosting provider. Verify that the name server resolves and validates.
7.  Switch back to **LON-CL1** and in the Microsoft 365 Admin center, select **Verify**.


#### Task 3: Complete the custom domain setup

1.  On the **Add new users** page, select**Got it, thanks** and on the next page, select **Next**.
2.  On the **Install your Office apps** page, select **Next**.
3.  On the **Migrate email messages** page, select **Next**.
4.  On the **Choose your online services** page, verify that **Exchange** is selected, select **Skype for Business**, and then select **Next**.
5.  On the **Add DNS Records** page, click **Verify** and review the errors. The errors are expected as the online records will not be used for a hybrid configuration.
6.  Click **Exit and continue later**.


#### Task 4: Verify Office 365 service health

1.  Select **Health** on the left-hand menu, and then select **Service health** to display the Service health dashboard.
2.  In the details pane, view the status of the Microsoft 365 services. If any services are showing a status other than **Service is healthy**, select the service.
3.  Review any service interruption records or additional information in the status page.
4.  Close **Microsoft Edge**.
5.  If prompted, select **Close all**.

> **Note:** During Microsoft testing, occasionally, Office 365 might not successfully create the trial tenant. As a result, the tenant will not have all the services available to it. If this happens, create a new trial tenant using a different business email (Microsoft account).

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have provisioned an Office 365 E5 trial tenant and global admin account. You will have added a custom domain and verified ownership. You will have completed the custom domain setup including DNS records and verified Office 365 services health.


## Exercise 3: Exploring the Microsoft 365 admin interfaces
  
### Scenario
To familiarize yourself with the Microsoft 365 administrator portals and to familiarize yourself with the default Office 365 configuration, you need to explore the Microsoft 365 administrator interfaces.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Explore the Microsoft 365 admin center
2.  Explore the Exchange admin center
3.  Explore the Skype for Business admin center
4.  Explore the SharePoint admin center
5.  Explore the Microsoft OneDrive admin center
6.  Explore the Azure AD admin center
7.  Explore the Security &amp; Compliance admin center
8.  Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Explore the Microsoft 365 admin center
  

1.  On **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge and then browse to **http://portal.office.com**.
2.  Sign in as **Beth** using the configured username and password. Close any prompts that appear.
3.  Click the **App Launcher** and then click **Admin**.
4.  On the left navigation menu, expand the menu and then scroll down to explore all available items, expanding items such as **Users**, **Groups**, and **Settings**.
5.  On the left navigation menu, expand **Users**, and then select **Active users**.
6.  Review the users list.
7.  On the left navigation menu, expand **Health**, and then select **Message center**.
8.  In the right pane, review any messages.
9.  Do not close the browser window.


#### Task 2: Explore the Exchange admin center
  
1.  On the left navigation menu, expand **Admin centers**, and then select **Exchange**. A new tab opens displaying **Exchange admin center**.
2.  On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.


#### Task 3:  Explore the Microsoft Teams & Skype for Business Admin Center
  
1.  Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2.  On the left navigation menu, under **Admin centers**, select **Teams & Skype**.
3.  Verify that a new tab opens displaying **Microsoft Teams & Skype for Business Admin Center**.
4.  On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.

> **Note:** The Skype for Business admin center is accessed by selecting **Legacy Portal** in the Microsoft Teams & Skype for Business Admin Center.


#### Task 4: Explore the SharePoint admin center
  
1.  Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2.  On the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **SharePoint**.
3.  Verify that a new tab opens displaying the **SharePoint admin center**.
4.  On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results that display in the right pane.


#### Task 5: Explore the Microsoft OneDrive admin center  

1.  Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2.  On the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **OneDrive**.
3.  A new tab opens displaying **OneDrive admin center**.
4.  On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results that display in the right pane.


#### Task 6: Explore the Azure AD admin center
  
1.  Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2.  On the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **Azure Active Directory**.
3.  Verify that a new tab opens displaying **Azure Active Directory admin center**. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.


#### Task 7: Explore the Security &amp; Compliance admin center
  
1.  Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2.  On the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **Security &amp; Compliance**.
3.  Verify that a new tab opens displaying **Security &amp; Compliance**.
4.  On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and then review the results displayed in the right pane.
5.  Close **Microsoft Edge**.


#### Task 8: Prepare for the next module
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the lab in the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have explored the following Office 365 interfaces:
>  - Microsoft 365 admin center
>  - Exchange admin center
>  - Teams and Skype for Business admin center
>  - SharePoint admin center
>  - OneDrive admin center
>  - Azure AD admin center
>  - Security and Compliance admin center



### Review question(s)
  

**Question** 
Why is it important to specify the correct country/region when you set up an Office 365 account?

©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
