# Module 8: Authentication options in hybrid deployments
# Lab: Implement authentication solutions in hybrid deployments

### Scenario
Adatum is evaluating various authentication solutions for their Office 365 hybrid deployment. In addition to password hash synchronization, you have to evaluate AD FS for SSO and pass-through authentication.



### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Deploy AD FS for SSO.
- Deploy pass-through authentication for SSO.

> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Office 365. Microsoft Worldwide Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
Estimated time: 60 minutes


Virtual machines: **10984B-LON-DC1**, **10984B-LON-DS1**, **10984B-LON-WAP1**, and **10984B-LON-CL1**

Username: **Adatum\Administrator**, **LON-WAP1\Administrator (only for LON-WAP1)**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- Where you see references to **Adatum*YYXXXX*.onmicrosoft.com**, replace **Adatum*YYXXXX*** with your unique Office 365 Name displayed in the online lab portal.
- Where you see references to **Adatum*YYXXXX*.hostdomain.com**, replace the **Adatum*YYXXXX*** with your unique hostdomain.com Name displayed in the online lab portal.

> **Note:** Please note, at the time of this course's development, Microsoft was rebranding the Office 365 Admin center. In most instances, the Office 365 Admin center now is called the Microsoft 365 admin center. However, you may encounter instances of Office 365 Admin center in this course, particularly in the user interface in labs. Don't assume you're in the wrong portal if you encounter instances of Office 365 Admin center. For this course, the two names refer to the same admin center.

> **Note:** When you connect to the Office 365 Admin center, you might be prompted to provide an authentication phone and authentication email address. If you see this window, select **Cancel**.

This lab requires the following virtual machines:

- **LON-DC1**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-DS1**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-CL1**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-WAP1**
    - Sign in as **LON-WAP1\Administrator** by using the password **Pa55w.rd**.


## Exercise 1: Deploy AD FS for SSO

### Scenario
As a part of evaluating authentication options for your hybrid Office 365 environment, you decide to configure AD FS to achieve SSO and to authenticate all users on your local AD DS, no matter which service they access. This will allow a user to use a single set of credentials when accessing both local and cloud resources. It will also mean that your local AD DS provides authentication.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Prepare lab environment
2. Configure required Domain Name System (DNS) records
3. Install and configure AD FS
4. Install and configure Web Application Proxy
5. Configure a domain for SSO
6. Verify AD FS and SSO functionality


#### Task 1: Prepare lab environment

1. On LON-WAP1, use Windows PowerShell to uninstall WAP service by executing following cmdlet, as Administrator:

    ```
    Uninstall-WindowsFeature -Name Web-Application-Proxy -computerName LON-WAP1
    ```

2. After cmdlet executes, restart LON-WAP1 and then sign in as **Administrator**.
3. On LON-DS1, use Windows PowerShell to uninstall ADFS role by executing following cmdlet, as Administrator:

    ```
    Uninstall-WindowsFeature -Name ADFS-Federation -computerName LON-DS1
    ```

4. After cmdlet executes, restart LON-DS1 and then sign in as **Adatum\Administrator**.


#### Task 2: Configure required Domain Name System (DNS) records

1. On **LON-DS1**, open the Windows PowerShell command-line interface, and then run **IPConfig**. Record the server IP address.
2. On **LON-DC1**, open **DNS Manager**.
3. In the **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** zone, create a host record with a blank name by using the external IP address that the hosting partner provided.
4. Create another host resource record with a blank name by using the IP address for **LON-DS1** that you recorded in step 1.

    >**Note:** If another **\(same as parent folder\)** record exits with the **10.0.0.6** or **172.16.0.13** IP address from a previous lab, delete that record to prevent name resolution issues.


#### Task 3: Install and configure AD FS

1. Sign in to the **LON-DS1** VM as**Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Run the following command to create the Key Distribution Services root key to generate gMSA passwords for the account that this lab will use later:

    ```
    Add-KdsRootKey -EffectiveTime ((get-date).addhours(-10))
    ```

3. Use **Server Manager** to access the **Add Roles and Features Wizard** for installing the Active Directory Federation Services server role.

4. After installation, in the **Active Directory Federation Services Configuration Wizard**, configure the following settings:

  - For the **SSL Certificate**, use the wildcard certificate that the hosting provider supplied.
  - For the **Federation Service Name**, type **_adatumyyxxxxx_.hostdomain.com**, replacing **adatumyyxxxxx** with your unique domain name.
  - For the **Federation Service Display Name**, type **Adatum Corporation Web**.
  - Create a gMSA named **svc_ADFS1**.
  - Use **Windows Internal Database** as the configuration database. Overwrite the existing database.

5. Finish the configuration.
6. Restart **LON-DS1** and then sign in as **Adatum\Administrator**.


#### Task 4: Install and configure Web Application Proxy

1. Sign in to the **LON-WAP1** VM as **LON-WAP1\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Use **Server Manager** to access the **Add Roles and Features Wizard** for installing the **Web Application Proxy** role service from the Remote Access server role.
3. Use Notepad to open the hosts file on **LON-WAP1** located at **C:\\Windows\\System32\\drivers\\etc**. At the end of the text in hosts file, start a new line and add the following text: 

     **_LON-DS1\_IP\_address_** &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

    >**Note:** Instead of **_LON-DS1\_IP\_address_** type the IP address of LON-DS1 computer and replace Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com with your unique domain name. For example, **10.0.0.7** &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; **AB12345.hostdomain.com**.

4. On **LON-WAP1**, use **Remote Access Management** to open the **Web Application Proxy Configuration Wizard**.
5. In the **Web Application Proxy Configuration Wizard**, on the **Welcome** page, click **Next**.
6. On the **Federation Server** page, use the following settings:

  - Federation service name: **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, replacing _adatumyyxxxxx_ with your unique domain name
  - Username: **Adatum\Administrator**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

7. Use the wildcard certificate that the hosting partner provided.
8. Switch to the **LON-DS1** VM.
9. Verify that **Event ID 100** displays in **Event Viewer**.

    > **Note:** If you have configured the federation server properly, you should see a new event with Event ID 100 in the Event Viewer Application log. This event verifies that the federation server proxy could communicate successfully with the Federation Service.

10. Switch to the **LON-DC1** VM.
11. In Internet Explorer, open the following URL, replacing **adatumyyxxxxx** with your unique domain name, to verify that the federation service is available:**https://_adatumyyxxxxx_.hostdomain.com/adfs/fs/federationserverservice.asmx**.

    > **Note:** The expected output is a display of XML with the service description document. If this page displays, then IIS on the federation server is operational and serving pages successfully.


#### Task 5: Configure a domain for SSO

1. Switch to **LON-DS1**, click **Start**, right click on **Windows PowerShell** and then click on **Run as Administrator**.
2. On **LON-DS1**, run the following cmdlets in Windows PowerShell:

    ```
    Import-Module MSOnline
    ```

    ```
    Set-ExecutionPolicy Unrestricted -force
    ```

    ```
    $msolcred = Get-Credential
    ```

    >**Note:** In the **Windows PowerShell Credential** dialog box, enter Username: **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com** Password: **_your\_password_**, and then select **OK**:

    ```
    Connect-MsolService -Credential $msolcred
    ```

    ```
    Get-MsolDomain
    ```

    > **Note:** If you run the following command from a computer other than the AD FS federation server, you will need to first use the **Set-MsolAdfsContext** cmdlet to reference the AD FS server.

    ```
    Convert-MsolDomainToFederated -DomainName adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
    ```

    ```
    Get-MsolFederationProperty -DomainName adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
    ```

  In the **Windows PowerShell Credential** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then select**OK**:

  - Username: **Beth@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**
  - Password: _your password_

3. Leave Windows PowerShell window open.

    > **Note:** If you run these commands from a computer other than the AD FS federation server, you will need to use the **Set-MsolAdfsContext** cmdlet to reference the AD FS server.


#### Task 6: Verify AD FS and SSO functionality

1. On LON-CL1, open a web browser on your local computer, and then browse to **https://portal.office.com**.
2. Sign in with the following credentials:

  - Username: August@*adatumyyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

3. Verify that you redirect to the **Adatum Corporation Web** sign-in page.
4. Review the **Office 365** page for August, and then close the web browser.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured SSO with AD FS.


## Exercise 2: Deploy pass-through authentication for SSO

### Scenario
You realized that pass-through authentication can simplify your deployment footprint while achieving similar results as with AD FS. You decide to deploy pass-through authentication and verify the functionality of this service. Also, you want to provide a seamless SSO experience for your domain users, so you decide to implement this technology together with pass-through authentication.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Configure pass-through authentication and seamless SSO
2. Verify pass-through authentication and SSO functionality


#### Task 1: Configure pass-through authentication and seamless SSO

1. On **LON-DS1**, start **Microsoft Azure AD Connect** wizard.
2. Select to **change user sign in**.
3. Select to use **pass-through authentication**.
4. Provide credentials for the global admin for your Office 365 tenant and credentials for the local AD DS domain administrator, when needed.
5. Restore Windows PowerShell window on LON-DS1, enter the following command, and then press Enter:

    ```
    Convert-MsolDomainToStandard -DomainName adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
    ```

6. When prompted for **PasswordFile** type **test** and press Enter.
7. When prompted for **SkipUserConversion** value, just press **enter** and wait for a few minutes until you receive command prompt back.
8. Switch to **LON-DC1** and run **Group Policy Management Editor**. Select to edit **Default Domain Policy**.
9. In **Group Policy Management Editor**, browse to **User Configuration** &gt; **Policies** &gt; **Administrative Templates** &gt; **Windows Components** &gt; **Internet Explorer** &gt; **Internet Control Panel** &gt; **Security Page**, and then select **Site to Zone Assignment List**.
10. In the **Site to Zone Assignment** window, select **Enabled**, and then select **Show**.
11. Enter **https://autologon.microsoftazuread-sso.com** in the **Value name** box, and enter **1** in the **Value** box.
12. In **Group Policy Management Editor**, navigate to **User Configuration** &gt; **Administrative Templates** &gt; **Windows Components** &gt; **Internet Explorer** &gt; **Internet Control Panel** &gt; **Security Page** &gt; **Intranet Zone**, and then select **Allow updates to status bar via script**.
13. Select **Enabled**, and then select **OK**.
14. Close **Group Policy Management Editor** and the **Group Policy Management** console.


#### Task 2: Verify pass-through authentication and SSO functionality

1. Open **portal.azure.com** and navigate to **Azure Active Directory admin** pane.
2. Select **Azure AD Connect**.
3. Verify that **Seamless single sign-on** and **Pass-through authentication** have value **Enabled** and that **Federation** has value **Disabled**. Select each item and verify that they are working properly.
4. Open an InPrivate window in Internet Explorer on LON-DS1, and browse to **portal.office.com**.
5. Sign in as **August@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and then select **Next**.
6. On the **Enter password** page, enter the password **Pa55w.rd**, and then select **Sign in**.
7. Verify that you are signed in to the Office 365 portal. This confirms that pass-through authentication works.
8. Switch to **LON-CL1**, sign out and then sign in as **August@Adatum.com** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.
9. Open an InPrivate window in Internet Explorer and browse to **https://portal.office.com**. When prompted to sign in type **August@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and then select **Next**.
10. Verify that you can access the Office 365 portal without typing a password. This confirms that seamless SSO is working.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you should have successfully configured pass-through authentication and seamless SSO.


### Review question(s)

**Question** 

What was the purpose of the **Convert-MsolDomainToFederated** cmdlet that you executed in the lab?

**Question** 

What do you achieve by implementing Azure AD Seamless SSO with pass-through authentication?


©2019 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
