# Lab Answer Key:  Module 1: Introduction to Office 365 administration and licensing
# Lab: Provisioning and configuring an Office 365 tenant
  
## Exercise 1: Configuring on-premise DNS
  
#### Task 1: Configure DNS for the on-premises environment
  

1. On **LON-DC1**, sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Select **Start**.
3. Right-click the **Windows PowerShell ISE** tile, select **More**, then select **Run as administrator**.
4. On the task bar, select **File Explorer**.
5. In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod01\\**.
6. Double-click the file **DC1DNS.txt**.
7. Copy the contents of the file **DC1DNS.txt** into the Windows PowerShell ISE **Script** pane.
8. In Windows PowerShell ISE, select **Run Script**.
9. When prompted, enter the unique domain name provided by your lab provider. \(for example: **Adatumyyxxxx.hostdomain.com**\)
10. When prompted, enter the IP address for the Web Application Server as provided by your lab provider.
11.  Close the PowerShell ISE window.


#### Task 2: Configure DNS on the on-premises web application server

1. Switch to **LON-WAP1** and sign in as **LON-WAP1\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
2. Select **Start**.
3. Right-click **Windows PowerShell ISE**, select **More**, then select **Run as administrator**.
4. On the task bar, select **File Explorer**.
5. In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Mod01\\**.
6. Double-click the file **WAP1DNS.txt**.
7. Copy the contents of the file **WAP1DNS.txt** into the Windows PowerShell ISE **Script** pane.
8. In Windows PowerShell ISE, select **Run Script**.
9. When prompted, enter the unique domain name provided by your lab provider.
10. When prompted, enter the public IP address of the web application server **LON-WAP1** provided by your lab provider.
11.  Close the PowerShell ISE window.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured DNS for the on-premises environment in anticipation of completing the labs.


## Exercise 2: Configuring an Office 365 trial tenant
  
#### Task 1: Provision an Office 365 E5 trial tenant and global admin account

1. On **LON-CL1**, sign in as **Adatum\\Beth** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**. Open **Microsoft Edge**, and in the address bar, paste the following URL: [https://aka.ms/AA21ej6](https://aka.ms/AA21ej6).
2. Select **Free trial**.
3. On the **Welcome, let's get to know you** page, complete the following fields and select **Next**. Regardless of your location, use the following information:

  - Country: **United States**
  - First name: **Beth**
  - Last name: **Burke**
  - Business email address: (Use the new Microsoft account that you created for this course.)
  - Business phone number: Use your mobile phone number, including international code for your current country.
  - Company name: **Adatum**
  - Your organization size: **50-249 people**

4. Create a unique domain for the company name to use in the course. Use the **_Adatumyyxxxxx_** name provided in the lab interface. In addition, you will need to create and confirm a unique password. (Be sure to write it down, as you will use it later. For the rest of the fields, use the following information:

  - Username: **Beth**
  - Company name: **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** (where ***yyxxxxx*** is your unique Adatum number)

5. Confirm your identity using your mobile phone by having Office 365 text you a verification code.
6. Wait until the Office 365 tenant is provisioned, and then select **Start Setup**.
7. On the Office 365 Admin page, click **Go to setup**.

> **Note:** During setup of Office 365, you may receive a variety of welcome or tour pages. Close them if they appear.


#### Task 2: Add a custom domain and verify ownership

> **Note:** If you were not provided an external name server by the lab hosting provider, skip steps 10 - 20 to use LON-DC1 as your public DNS server.

1. On the **Personalize your sign-in and email** page, verify that **Connect a domain you already own** is selected.
2. In the text box, enter your custom domain you were provided in the lab interface, and then select **Next**.
3. On the **Verify domain** page, write down the **TXT** record from the **TXT value** column. This entry will be similar to MS=ms_XXXXXXXX_. Record this value below: MS=_______________________
4. Switch to **LON-DC1**.
5. From Server Manager, open DNS Manager, right-click **Adatum_yyxxxxx_.hostdomain.com** and then select **Other New Records**.
6. Under **Select a resource record type**, scroll down to **Text \(TXT\)**, and select **Create Record**.
7. In the **New Resource Record** box, leave the **Record name** field blank.
8. In the **Text** field, enter **MS=msXXXXXXXX** that you recorded in Step 3 and then select **OK**.
9. In the **Resource Record Type** dialog box, select **Done**.
10. Right-click **Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, and then select **New Host \(A or AAAA\)**.
11. In the **New Host** box, under **Name**, type the name of the external name server as displayed by the lab hosting provider.
12. Under **IP address**, provide the IP address of the external name server as provided by the lab hosting provider.
13. Select **Add Host**, and in the DNS dialog box, select **OK**.
14. Close the **New Host** dialog box.
15. Right-click **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**, and then select **Properties**.
16. Select **Start of Authority \(SOA\)**.
17. Under **Primary Server** enter the FQDN of the name server as provided by the lab hosting provider.
18. Select **Name Servers**, then select **Edit**.
19. Replace the **Server fully qualified domain name \(FQDN\)** with the FQDN of the name server as provided by the Lab hosting provider.
20. Select **Resolve** and then click **OK** twice.
21. Switch back to **LON-CL1**, and in the Microsoft 365 Admin center, select **Verify**.


#### Task 3: Complete the custom domain setup

1. On the **Add new users** page, select **Got it, thanks**.
2. On the next page, select **Next**.
3. On the **Install your Office apps** page, select **Next**.
4. On the **Migrate email messages** page, select **Next**.
5. On the **Choose your online services** page, verify that **Exchange** is selected. Select **Skype for Business**, and then select **Next**.
6. On the **Add DNS Records** page, click **Verify** and review the errors. The errors are expected as the online records will not be used for a hybrid configuration.
7. Click **Exit and continue later**.


#### Task 4: Verify Office 365 service health

1. Select **Health** on the left-hand menu, and then select **Service health** to display the**Service health** dashboard.
2. In the details pane, view the status of the Microsoft 365 services. If any services are showing a status other than **Service is healthy**, select the service.
3. Review any service interruption records or additional information in the status page.
4. Close **Microsoft Edge**.
5. If prompted, select **Close all**.

> **Note:** During Microsoft testing, occasionally, Office 365 might not successfully create the trial tenant. As a result, the tenant will not have all the services available to it. If this happens, create a new trial tenant using a different business email (Microsoft account).

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have provisioned an Office 365 E5 trial tenant and global admin account. You will have added a custom domain and verified ownership. You will have completed the custom domain setup including DNS records and verified Office 365 services health.


## Exercise 3: Exploring the Microsoft 365 admin interfaces
  
#### Task 1: Explore the Microsoft 365 admin center

1. On **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge and then browse to **http://portal.office.com**.
2. Sign in as **Beth** using the configured username and password. Close any prompts that appear.
3. Click the **App Launcher** and then click **Admin**.
4. On the left navigation menu, expand the menu and then scroll down to explore all available items, expanding items such as **Users**, **Groups**, and **Settings**.
5. On the left navigation menu, expand **Users**, and then select **Active users**.
6. Review the users list.
7. On the left navigation menu, expand **Health**, and then select **Message center**.
8. In the right pane, review any messages.
9. Do not close the browser window.


#### Task 2: Explore the Exchange admin center
  

1. On the left navigation menu, expand **Admin centers**, and then select **Exchange**. A new tab opens displaying **Exchange admin center**.
2. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results displayed on the right pane.


#### Task 3: Explore the Microsoft Teams & Skype for Business Admin Center
  

1. Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2. On the left navigation menu, under **Admin centers**, select **Teams & Skype**.
3. Verify that a new tab opens displaying **Microsoft Teams & Skype for Business Admin Center**.
4. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items and review the results displayed on the right pane.

> **Note:** The Skype for Business admin center is accessed by selecting **Legacy Portal** in the Microsoft Teams & Skype for Business Admin Center.


#### Task 4: Explore the SharePoint admin center
  

1. Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2. On the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **SharePoint**.
3. Verify that a new tab opens displaying **SharePoint admin center**.
4. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results that display in the right pane.


#### Task 5: Explore the Microsoft OneDrive admin center
  

1. Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2. On the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **OneDrive**.
3. A new tab opens displaying **OneDrive admin center**.
4. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items and review the results that display in the right pane.


#### Task 6: Explore the Azure Active Directory admin center
  

1. Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2. On the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **Azure Active Directory**.
3. Verify that a new tab opens displaying **Azure Active Directory admin center**.
4. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and review the results that display in the right pane.


#### Task 7: Explore the Security &amp; Compliance admin center
  

1. Select the **Microsoft 365 admin center** tab.
2. On the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then select **Security &amp; Compliance**.
3. Verify that a new tab opens displaying **Security &amp; Compliance**.
4. On the left navigation menu, select each of the items, and then review the results that display in the right pane.
5. Close **Microsoft Edge**.


#### Task 8: Prepare for the next module
  
- Keep the virtual machines running for the lab in the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have explored the following Office 365 interfaces:
>  - Microsoft 365 admin center
>  - Exchange admin center
>  - Teams and Skype for Business admin center
>  - SharePoint admin center
>  - OneDrive admin center
>  - Azure AD admin center
>  - Security and Compliance admin center


©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
