# Module 7: Deploying additional Office 365 services in a hybrid deployment
# Lab: Configure additional Office 365 services in hybrid deployments

### Scenario
Adatum Corporation needs to protect identities synchronized to the cloud. Besides protecting user accounts, they also need control over privileged accounts that are being used in the cloud. To achieve that, the project team decided to implement Multi-Factor Authentication, Azure AD Identity Protection, and Azure AD Privileged Identity Management in a pilot environment.



### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Implement Multi-Factor Authentication.
- Implement Azure Information Protection.
- Implement Azure AD Privileged Identity Management.

> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Microsoft Office 365. Microsoft Worldwide Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  Estimated time: 75 minutes

Virtual machines: **10984B-LON-DC1**, **10984B-LON-DS1**, **10984B-LON-CL1**, and **10984B-LON-CL2**
Username: **Adatum\Administrator**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:
- Where you see references to **AdatumYYXXXX.onmicrosoft.com**, replace **AdatumYYXXXX** with your unique Office 365 name displayed in the online lab portal.
- Where you see references to ***AdatumYYXXXX*.hostdomain.com**, replace the *AdatumYYXXXX* with your unique hostdomain.com name displayed in the online lab portal.

> **Note:** Please note, at the time of this course's development, Microsoft was rebranding the Office 365 Admin center. In most instances, the Office 365 Admin center now is called the Microsoft 365 admin center. However, you may encounter instances of Office 365 Admin center in this course, particularly in the user interface in labs. Don't assume you're in the wrong portal if you encounter instances of Office 365 Admin center. For this course, the two names refer to the same admin center.

> **Note:** When you connect to the Office 365 Admin center, you might be prompted to provide an authentication phone and authentication email address. If you see this window, select **Cancel**.

This lab requires the following virtual machines:

- **LON-DC1**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-DS1**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-CL1**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\Abbi** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-CL2**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.


## Exercise 1: Implement Multi-Factor Authentication

### Scenario
To provide better identity protection for some security-critical accounts, you decided to deploy Multi-Factor Authentication.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Activate Azure AD Premium and Enterprise Mobility + Security trials
2.  Enable and configure Multi-Factor Authentication
3.  Verify the Multi-Factor Authentication functionality


#### Task 1: Activate Azure AD Premium and Enterprise Mobility + Security trials

1.  On LON-CL1, in Microsoft Edge, navigate to **https://portal.azure.com**, and then sign in with the Office 365 admin account.
2.  In the navigation pane of the Azure portal, select the **Azure Active Directory** item.
3.  Activate trial licenses for Enterprise Mobility + Security E5 for your Azure AD tenant.
4.  Select **Licenses**, and then ensure that licenses for Azure Active Directory Premium P2, Enterprise Mobility + Security E5, and Office 365 E5 are activated on your Azure AD tenant.

    >**Note:** If you do not see your new license for **Enterprise Mobility + Security E5**, refresh the Edge browser window. If that does not work, sign out and then sign back in to the Microsoft Azure portal.

5.  Leave the Azure portal open.


#### Task 2: Enable and configure Multi-Factor Authentication

1.  Sign in to the Azure portal by using your Azure subscription.
2.  Configure the **Adatum** directory to enable Multi-Factor Authentication for **Abbi Skinner**.
3.  Close the **Microsoft Edge** window, and then reopen it.


#### Task 3: Verify the Multi-Factor Authentication functionality

1.  Sign in as **Abbi@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** to the Office 365 portal at portal.office.com. In the password box, type **Moc10984B**, and then select **Sign in**.
2.  When prompted to set up your security information, choose to verify your identity with **Authentication phone by using text message**.
3.  Use the code from the text message that you receive to verify your authentication phone.
4.  Sign out, and then sign in again to portal.office.com as **Abbi@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.
5.  Note that you will be prompted for the code from the text message when you sign in.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, the students should have successfully configured Multi-Factor Authentication.


## Exercise 2: Implement Azure Information Protection

### Scenario
To help achieve persistent document protection, you decided to implement Azure Information Protection. Also, you want to be able to classify and label documents before applying protection. Documents that need protection are located in the cloud and on your file server located on-premises.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Activate and configure Azure Information Protection
2.  Deploy Azure Information Protection to clients
3.  Classify and help protect documents with Azure Information Protection


#### Task 1: Activate and configure Azure Information Protection

1.  On **LON-DS1**, open the Microsoft 365 admin center.
2.  Activate the Enterprise Mobility + Security E5 license and Office 365  E5 products for users Anastasia Rojas and August Towle.
3.  On **LON-DC1**, open the Azure portal.
4.  If necessary, activate the Azure Information Protection service.
5.  In the Azure portal, navigate to **Azure Information Protection**.
6.  Open the properties window for the labels. Click to generate default labels.
7.  Convert the **Highly Confidential\All Employees** template to the **Adatum Documents High Protection** label.
8.  Use this label to configure a header for protected documents that reads **This document is protected to use only in Adatum Corporation**.
9.  Disable offline access for this label.
10.  Edit the Global policy to enable the **Display the Information Protection** bar in the Office apps and the **Add the Do Not Forward button in the Outlook ribbon**. Add the **Highly Confidential** and **Adatum Documents High Protection** labels to Global policy.
11.  Save and publish the Global policy.


#### Task 2: Deploy Azure Information Protection to clients

1.  On the **LON-CL2** computer, use Microsoft Edge to open https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=53018.
2.  Download **AzInfoProtection.exe**. Save the file to the **Downloads** folder.
3.  In File Explorer, browse to the **Downloads** folder, and then run the **AzInfoProtection.exe** file.
4.  Install the Azure Information Protection client app.
5.  After the app installs, restart the computer, and then sign in again as **August@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.


#### Task 3: Classify and help protect documents with Azure Information Protection

1.  On LON-CL2 create a new folder named **C:\Temp**. Create a new text document in the **C:\Temp** folder.
2.  Add some text, save it as **Doc1**, and then close it.
3.  Use the Azure Information Protection client app to classify and help protect the document by using the **Adatum Documents High Protection** template. Sign in as **August@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** with the Password of **Pa55w.rd**.
4.  After the protection is applied, ensure that the file extension has changed to **.ptxt**.
5.  Double-click **Doc1**. Ensure that it now opens in the Azure Information Protection viewer and not in Notepad. Close the file after you confirm.
6.  Open Word. Sign in to Word as **August@adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**. If the Use this account everywhere on your device window appears, click **This app only**.
7.  Create a new blank document, and then type some text in it.
8.  On the toolbar, select the **Adatum Documents High Protection** template. Ensure that **HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL - ADATUM DOCUMENTS HIGH PROTECTION** was added to the document. You will see this on the toolbar.
9.  Open the track usage page for the **Doc1.ptxt** document.
10.  Configure notification for each time someone tries to open this document.
11.  Review the options available for usage tracking and then close the Microsoft Edge browser.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, the students should have successfully configured Azure Information Protection.


## Exercise 3: Implement Azure AD Privileged Identity Management

### Scenario
To better control privileged accounts in Azure AD, you decided to deploy Azure AD Privileged Identity Management. Your goal is to set most Azure AD administrators to a temporary role so that they must request activation of their administrative privileges. For evaluation purposes, you want to configure a User Administrator role that requires activation and approval before being used.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Deploy and activate Azure AD Privileged Identity Management
2.  Assign and configure roles in Azure AD Privileged Identity Management
3.  Verify the Azure AD Privileged Identity Management functionality


#### Task 1: Deploy and activate Azure AD Privileged Identity Management

1.  On LON-DC1, open the Internet Explorer browser, and then browse to **https://portal.azure.com**.
2.  Sign in to the Azure portal as an administrator.
3.  Navigate to Azure AD Privileged Identity Management.
4.  Select **Consent to PIM** and verify your identity with Multi-Factor Authentication.
5.  Consent to the service usage.


#### Task 2: Assign and configure roles in Azure AD Privileged Identity Management

1.  In Azure AD Privileged Identity Management, navigate to Azure AD directory roles, and then sign up.
2.  In **Settings**, configure the **User Administrator** role with the following settings:

  - Use a maximum duration of two hours
  - Notify administrators when activated
  - Require approval for activation

3.  Configure an alert to be triggered when roles are being activated too frequently and when administrators aren't using their privileged roles for more than 21 days.
4.  Assign **Ida Alksne** as an eligible user for the **User Administrator** role.
5.  Leave the Azure portal open with the administrator signed in.


#### Task 3: Verify the Azure AD Privileged Identity Management functionality

1.  Open a new InPrivate browser window, and then sign in as Ida Alksne.
2.  Navigate to Azure AD Privileged Identity Management.
3.  Request activation for the **User Administrator** role.
4.  Approve the request by using the admin account in the Azure portal.
5.  Verify that Ida Alksne has the temporary role of **User Administrator**.
6.  Verify that role activation is logged in **Directory roles audit history**.
7.  Keep the Virtual Machines running for the lab in the next module.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, the students should have successfully configured Azure AD Privileged Identity Management.


### Review question(s)

**Question** 

You want to enforce multi-factor authentication for your business-critical website. What should you use?

**Question** 

What app should you use to help protect JPEG files with Azure Information Protection?


©2019 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
