# Lab Answer Key:  Module 7: Deploying additional Office 365 services in a hybrid deployment
# Lab: Configure additional Office 365 services in hybrid deployments
  
## Exercise 1: Implement Multi-Factor Authentication
  
#### Task 1: Activate Azure AD Premium and Enterprise Mobility + Security trials

1. On **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge.
2. In the **Microsoft Edge** window, go to https://portal.azure.com. If prompted, sign in with your Office 365 admin account.
3. If the **Welcome to Microsoft Azure** window appears, select **Maybe later**.
4. On the **Microsoft Azure** page, in the navigation pane on the left side, select **Azure Active Directory**. The **Adatum - Overview** page opens.
5. In the middle navigation pane, select **Licenses**, and then select **All products** in the middle pane.
6. Click **Try/Buy**.
7. Under **Enterprise Mobility + Security E5**, click **Free trial** and then click **Activate**.
8. In the navigation pane on the left side, select **Azure Active Directory**.
9. In the middle navigation pane, select **Licenses**, and then select **All products** in the middle pane.
10. Ensure that you see licenses for Azure Active Directory Premium P2, Enterprise Mobility + Security E5, and Office 365 Enterprise E5. Close the **Licenses - All products** page. (If you do not see your new license for Enterprise Mobility + Security E5, sign out and then sign back in.)
11. Leave the Azure portal open.


#### Task 2: Enable and configure Multi-Factor Authentication
  

1. On **LON-CL1**, ensure that the Azure portal is open.
2. Select the **Azure Active Directory** item.
3. Select **Users**, and then select **All users**.
4. On the toolbar, select **Multi-Factor Authentication**. If this item does not appear on the toolbar, select **More**, and then select **Multi-Factor Authentication**.
5. If you see a **Sign-in** page, type the credentials for the account associated with your Azure subscription, and then select **Sign in**.
6. On the **multi-factor authentication** page, select **Sign-in allowed users**.
7. In the **users** list, select the check box for **Abbi Skinner**, and then in the **quick steps** section, select **Enable**.
8. On the **About enabling multi-factor auth** page, select **enable multi-factor auth**.
9. On the **Updates successful** page, select **close**.
10. Close the **Microsoft Edge** window, and then reopen it. If a prompt to close all tabs appears, click **close all**.


#### Task 3: Verify the Multi-Factor Authentication functionality
  

1. On **LON-CL1**, in the **Microsoft Edge** window, type **portal.office.com**, and then press **enter**.
2. On the **Office 365 sign in** page, in the **user name** box, type **Abbi\@yourdomain.hostdomain.com**.
3. On the **Adatum Corporation** sign-in page, in the **password** box, type **Moc10984A**, and then select **Sign in**.
4. On the **More information required** page, select **Next**.
5. On the **Additional security verification** page, ensure that **Authentication phone** is selected in the first box and that your mobile phone number appears in the next box below that. If it does not, type your mobile phone number.
6. In the **Method** section, select **Send me a code by text message**.
7. Select **Next**.
8. Look for the text message on your mobile phone, type the code from the message in the box, and then select **Verify**.
9. On the **Additional security verification** page, select **Done**.
10. Close Microsoft Edge, and then reopen it.
11. In the **Microsoft Edge** window, type **portal.office.com**, and then press Enter.
12. On the **Office 365sign in** page, select **Abbi\@yourdomain**.**hostdomain.com**.
13. On the **Adatum Corporation** sign-in page, in the **password** box, type **Moc10984A**, and then select **Sign in**.
14. Ensure that you get a text message on your phone.
15. On the sign-in page, in the box, type the code from the message, and then select **Verify**.
16. Ensure that you are signed in to Office 365.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, the students should have successfully configured Multi-Factor Authentication.


## Exercise 2: Implement Azure Information Protection
  
#### Task 1: Activate and configure Azure Information Protection
  

1. On **LON-DS1**, in Internet Explorer, navigate to the Microsoft Office 365 portal at https://portal.office.com.
2. On the **Office 365 sign-in** page, use the account that is associated with your Office 365 trial subscription, and then select **Admin**.
3. On the **Microsoft 365 admin center** page, if the **Welcome to the new Office 365 admin center** or **Manage Office 365 on the go** window appears, close it.
4. In the pane on the left side, select **Users**, and then select **Active Users**.
5. Select the user **Abbie Parsons**.
6. In the pane on the right side, under the **Product licenses** section, select **Edit**.
7. In the **Product licenses** window, select the **[Select a location]** box, and then select your country/region. If your location is not listed, select **United States**.
8. Select the **Enterprise Mobility + Security E5**, select the **Office 365 Enterprise E5**, select **Save**, and then select **Close** twice.
9. Repeat steps 5 through 8 for the user **Adam Hobbs**.
10. On **LON-DC1**, on the taskbar, select the **Internet Explorer** icon.
11. Navigate to https://portal.azure.com, and then sign in with the account associated with your Office 365 trial.
12. In the Azure portal, select **All services**, and then in the search box, type **Azure Information Protection**.
13. Select the **Azure Information Protection** item.
14. On the **Azure Information Protection** page, in the middle navigation pane, select **Protection activation**.
15. Ensure that the protection status is **activated**. If it isn't, select **Activate**. Wait until you see the **Activation finished successfully** message.
16. Select **Labels**.
17. In the pane on the right side, expand **Highly Confidential** and then select **All Employees**.
18. In the **Label** pane, in the **Label display name** box, type **Adatum Documents High Protection**.
19. In the **Description** box, type any text.
20. In the **Footer Color** box, select the color of your choice.
21. In the **Set permissions for documents and emails containing this label** section, select **Protect**.
22. In the **Protection** section, select **Azure (cloud key)**.
23. In the **Protection** window, in the **Allow offline access** section, select **Never**, and then select **OK**.
24. In the **Set visual marking (such as header or footer)** section, for **Documents with this label have header**, select **On**.
25. In the **Header text** box, type **This document is protected to use only in Adatum Corporation**.
26. Review the other available options in this pane, and then select **Save**. In the **Save settings** window, select **OK**. On the **Label:All Employees** page, click **Close**.
27. In the **Azure Information Protection - Labels** window, select **Policies**, and then in the pane on the right side, select **Global**.
28. For the **Display the Information Protection bar in Office apps** and **Add the Do Not Forward button to the Outlook ribbon** options, select **On**.
29. Select **Save**. In the **Save settings** window, select **OK**.


#### Task 2: Deploy Azure Information Protection to clients
  

1. On the **LON-CL2** computer, open Microsoft Edge.
2. In the Microsoft Edge address bar, type **https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=53018**, and then press Enter.
3. On the **Download center** page, select **Download**.
4. On the **Choose the download you want** page, select **AzInfoProtection.exe**, and then select **Next**.
5. On the **Thank you for downloading Microsoft Azure Information Protection** page, at the prompt that appears at the bottom of the page, select **Save as**.
6. On the left-side menu, select the **Downloads** folder, and then select **Save**.
7. On the taskbar, select the **File Explorer** icon.
8. In File Explorer, navigate to the **Downloads** folder.
9. Double-click the **AzInfoProtection** file.
10. In the **Install the Azure Information Protection client** window, select **I agree**. If the User Account Control dialog box appears, click **Yes**.
11. Ensure that you have the status **Completed Successfully** at the end of the installation.
12. Select **Close**.
13. Restart the computer, and then sign in again as **Adam\@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.


#### Task 3: Classify and help protect documents with Azure Information Protection
  

1. On **LON-CL2**, open File Explorer, create the **C:\\temp** folder, open the new folder, right-click the empty space, select **New**, and then select **Text Document**.
2. Name the new document **Doc1**.
3. Open **Doc1**, and then type some text. Save the document, and then close it.
4. Right-click the document, and then select **Classify and protect**. Sign in as **Adam\@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** with the Password of **Pa55w.rd**.
5. In the **Classify and protect - Azure Information Protection** window, from the **Highly Confidential** drop-down list, select **Adatum Documents High Protection**, and then select **Apply**. Select **Close**.
6. After the **Classify and protect - Azure Information Protection** window closes, ensure that the extension of the file has changed to **.ptxt**.
7. Double-click **Doc1**. Ensure that it now opens in the Azure Information Protection viewer and not in Notepad.
8. Close the file.
9. Select **Start**, and then open Word 2016. Select **Blank document**. If **First things first** dialog box appears select **Ask me later** and then click **Accept**.
10. Write some text of your choice in the document. On the toolbar, select **Protect**, ensure that **show bar** is selected, and then next to **Highly Confidential** select **Adatum Documents High Protection**. You can also select the pencil icon on the toolbar from the **Highly Confidential** drop-down list select **Adatum Documents High Protection**.
11. Ensure that the header was added to the document.
12. Save the document to the **Documents** folder. Ensure that **HIGHLY CONFIDENTIAL - ADATUM DOCUMENTS HIGH PROTECTION** was added to the document. You will see this on the toolbar.
13. Close Word.
14. Double-click the **Doc1.ptxt** file. select **Track and Revoke**.
15. In Microsoft Edge, on the **Microsoft Azure Information Protection** page, select **Sign in**.
16. Sign in as **Adam\@yourdomain**.**hostdomain.com**. If prompted, set up an alternative authentication option to your mobile phone as you did in the previous labs.
17. On the **Doc1.txt** page, select **Settings**.
18. On the **Email notifications** page, select **Notify me by email when someone tries to open this document**.
19. Review the other options, and then close the Microsoft Edge browser.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, the students should have successfully configured Azure Information Protection.


## Exercise 3: Implement Azure AD Privileged Identity Management
  
#### Task 1: Deploy and activate Azure AD Privileged Identity Management

1. On LON-DC1, open the Microsoft Edge browser, and then browse to https://portal.azure.com.
2. Sign in as an administrator of your Office 365 tenant with your password.
3. In the Azure portal, select **All services**. In the search box, type **Azure AD Privileged Identity Management**, and then select the item.
4. Click **Consent to PIM**.
5. In the **Privileged Identity Management - Consent to PIM** window, select **Verify my identity**.
6. On the **Microsoft Azure** page, select **Next**.
7. On the **Additional security verification** page, ensure that **Authentication phone** is selected in the first box, select your country/region, and then type your mobile phone number. Select the **Send me a code by text message** option, and then select **Next**.
8. On the **Additional security verification** page, type the code that you received in the text message, and then select **Verify**.
9. When you receive the **Verification successful!** message, select **Done**. You are redirected back to the Azure portal.
10. In the Azure portal, select **All services**. In the search box, type **Azure AD Privileged Identity Management**, and then select the item.
11. Click **Consent to PIM**.
12. In the **Privileged Identity Management - Consent to PIM** window, select **Consent**, and then select **Yes**.


#### Task 2: Assign and configure roles in Azure AD Privileged Identity Management

1. In the Azure portal, on the **Privileged Identity Management - Quick start** page, select **Azure AD directory roles**, select **Sign up**, and then select **Yes**.
2. In the **Azure AD directory roles - Overview** window, refresh the page and then in the middle navigation pane, select **Settings**.
3. In the navigation pane on the right side, select **Roles**.
4. In the **Roles** list, select the **User Administrator** role.
5. In the navigation pane on the right side, for **Maximum activation duration (hours)**, type **2**.
6. In the **Notifications** section, for **Send email notifying admins of activation**, select **Enable**.
7. In the **Require approval** section select **Enable**. Note that if no approvers are selected, Privileged Role Administrators will be approvers by default. Do not select a specific approver, and then select **Save**.
8. Close the **User Administrator** and **Roles** windows.
9. In the **Settings** pane, select **Alerts**.
10. In the Alerts pane, select **Roles are being activated too frequently**.
11. In the Security alert settings pane, in the **Number of renewals** section, change the value to **7**, and then select **Save**.
12. In the Alerts pane, select **Administrators aren't using their privileged roles**.
13. On the **Security alert settings** page, change the value to **21 days**, and then select **Save**. Close the **Security alert settings** page and the **Alerts** page.
14. Select **Members**, and then in the pane on the right side, select **Add member**.
15. In the **Add managed members** window, select **Select a role**. In the list of roles, select **User Administrator**, and then select **select**.
16. In the **Add managed members** window, select **Select members**.
17. Type **Ella**, select her, and then select **select**. Select **OK**.
18. Verify that **Ella Perry** appears on the **Members** page and that his **ACTIVATION** status is **Eligible** for the **User Administrator** role.
19. Leave the Azure portal open.


#### Task 3: Verify the Azure AD Privileged Identity Management functionality

1. Open a new InPrivate browser window, and then browse to **https://portal.azure.com**.
2. Sign in as **Ella\@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** with the password of **Pa55w.rd.** If the **Welcome to Azure** window appears, select **Maybe later**.
3. In the Azure portal, select **All services**, and then type and select **Azure AD Privileged Identity Management**.
4. In the **Privileged Identity Management - Quick start** pane, select **My roles**.
5. In the pane on the right side, ensure that the **User Administrator** role is present in the list, and then select **Activate**.
6. In the User Administrator pane, select the **Verifying your identity before proceeding** link.
7. In the Verify my identity pane, select **Verify my identity**.
8. On the **Microsoft Azure** page, select **Next**.
9. On the **Additional security verification** page, ensure that **Authentication phone** is selected in the first box, select your country/region, and then type your mobile phone number. Select the **Send me a code by text message** option, and then select **Next**.
10. On the **Additional security verification** page, type the code that you received in the text message, select **Verify**, and then select **Done**.
11. Note that you are redirected back to the Azure portal. In the User Administrator pane, select **Activate**.
12. In the **Activation** window, in the **Activation reason** box, type **Daily user administration**. Select **Activate**.
13. Note that on the right side, a note appears with a request to activate the **User Administrator** role. Close the **Activation** window and the **User Administrator** window.
14. Switch to the browser window where you are signed in as an administrator to the Azure portal. This is the window you left open in the previous task.
15. Select **Approve requests**. Ensure that you see the request for the **User Administrator** role. Select the request, and then select **Approve**.
16. In the **Approve reason** box, type text of your choice, and then select **Approve**.
17. Switch to the browser window where you are signed in as **Ella Perry**.
18. In the Azure portal, select **All services**, and then type and select **Azure AD Privileged Identity Management**.
19. In the **Privileged Identity Management - Quick start** pane, select **My roles**. On the **STATUS** column, ensure that the **User Administrator** role has **Access valid until**_xx.xxx.xxxx_**date**.
20. Switch back to the browser window where you are signed in as an administrator. Close the **Approve selected requests** window.
21. In the Azure AD directory roles pane, select **Directory roles audit history**.
22. In the Audit history pane, ensure that you see the **Ella Perry** activation of the **User Administrator** role.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, the students should have successfully configured Azure AD Privileged Identity Management.


©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
