# Module 3: Exchange Server hybrid deployment planning
# Lab: Planning and designing the integration between Exchange Online and Exchange Server 2016
  
### Scenario
You are the Exchange administrator for a company called Adatum. Your company has run Exchange Server on-premises as their corporate messaging and collaboration system for more than 10 years. Adatum currently runs a mix of Exchange Server 2010 and Exchange Server 2013 that support 7,000 user mailboxes. Adatum needs to upgrade the current environment to Exchange 2016. As part of upgrade, you will start to transition some mailboxes to Office 365. Azure AD Connect has been deployed and directory synchronization is enabled and working between your local AD and Azure AD. You must implement Exchange Online in a hybrid configuration based on your organizational requirements. Before the deployment, you need to design Adatum's hybrid configuration and plan for the hybrid deployment.


### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Design an Exchange hybrid solution.
- Propose a hybrid solution for a given scenario.

> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365, and Microsoft Learning updates the lab steps frequently. Therefore, they aren't available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  Estimated time: 40 minutes

Virtual machines: **10984B-LON-DC1**, **10984B-LON-DS1**, **10984B-LON-EX1**, **10984B-LON-WAP1**, **10984B-LON-CL1**, and **10984B-LON-EDGE**

For **10984B-LON-DC1, 10984B-LON-DS1, 10984B-LON-EX1, 10984B-LON-EDGE**, and **10984B-LON-CL1** sign in by using the following credentials:

Username: **Adatum\Administrator**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For **10984B-LON-WAP1** sign in by using the following credentials:

Username: **LON-WAP1\Administrator**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

For this lab, you need to use the available virtual machine environment. This lab depends on the completion of Module 1 Lab A and Module 2 Lab A. If the lab machines are not running, before you begin the lab, you must complete the following steps:


- For **10984B-LON-DC1**, **10984B-LON-DS1**, **10984B-LON-EX1,** and**10984B-LON-CL1**, and **10984B-LON-EDGE**, sign in by using the following credentials:

  - Username: **Adatum\Administrator**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

- For **10984B-LON-WAP1** sign in by using the following credentials:

  - Username: **LON-WAP1\Administrator**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**


## Exercise 1: Designing an Exchange hybrid deployment
  
### Scenario
  Adatum currently has the following Exchange Server servers deployed:

New York site (2500 users):

- **NY-DAG1**
- **NYC-EX1** (Exchange Server 2013 - Mailbox &amp; CAS roles)
- **NYC-EX2** (Exchange Server 2013 - Mailbox &amp; CAS roles)

Atlanta site (3000 users):

- **ATL-EX1** (Exchange 2010 - Client Access role)
- **ATL-EX2** (Exchange 2010 - Mailbox role)
- **ATL-EX3** (Exchange 2010 - Hub Transport role)

London site (1500 users):

- **LON-DAG1**
- **LON-EX1** (Exchange Server 2013 - Mailbox &amp; CAS roles)
- **LON-EX2** (Exchange Server 2013 - Mailbox &amp; CAS roles)

Additionally, the following information is available:

- The London site, New York site, and Atlanta site are all connected to the internet.
- In the event of an internet outage, the New York and Atlanta sites can route internet traffic across a dedicated wide area network (WAN) connection between the two sites.
- Layer 7 Network Load Balancers are used to distribute connections to the **LON-DAG1** servers and the**NY-DAG1** servers. They can also function as reverse proxies.
- AutoDiscover from the internet is currently not configured and not functional.
- The Exchange Server organization has a non-Microsoft email relay to send and receive messages to and from the internet. This solution is required to meet strict industry regulations on electronic communications.
- You have an Office 365 Enterprise E5 trial subscription to a test implementation of Exchange Online.
- Your manager asks you not only to evaluate Exchange Online on its own, but also to connect the existing Exchange Server organization with Exchange Online.
- The Exchange Servers in Atlanta will be upgraded to Exchange Server 2016 in 30 days.

You have the following requirements:

- Free/busy information and MailTips must be available on both sides.
- Executives need to delegate mailbox permissions to their administrative assistants.
- Mailbox moves must occur in the Exchange admin center or in Windows PowerShell.
- All new and existing user mailboxes must be managed from Adatum's internal AD DS domain, adatum.com.
- 50% of all mailboxes must be moved to Exchange Online within six months.
- Users must be required to sign in only once when they start their computer.
- The on-premises Exchange Servers must not be able to send/receive email directly to/from the internet.
- The password-management solution should require the least amount of administrative effort to implement and support.
- The solution must enable Adatum to move some mailboxes to Exchange Online while still allowing users to use their domain accounts for at least 12 months.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Read and analyze the scenario requirements
2.  Design a solution


#### Task 1: Read and analyze the scenario requirements
  
- Read the exercise scenario. Analyze the requirements from an integration perspective. Identify the configurations that are necessary to satisfy the requirements.


#### Task 2: Design a solution
  
- **Question**: What components do you need to install and configure to satisfy the requirements?
- **Question**: What are the licensing requirements for Exchange Online?
- **Question**: What existing Exchange Servers can you use for Hybrid transport and Autodiscover?
- **Question**: What other areas do you need to consider if you want to run the Hybrid Configuration wizard successfully?
- **Question**: What would be different if Adatum were running only Exchange Server 2010 and not Exchange Server 2013 on-premises?
- **Question**: What Hybrid Transport option should you implement?

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, you will have successfully read and analyzed the scenario requirements and designed a solution.


## Exercise 2: Discussing a solution and reviewing the Exchange Online setup
  
### Scenario
  Before deploying Exchange hybrid, you want to review current Exchange Online setup.


The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:


1.  Discuss your solution with the class
2.  Reviewing an Exchange Online configuration in an Office 365 tenant
3.  Prepare the Exchange on-premises environment
4.  Prepare for the next module


#### Task 1: Discuss your solution with the class
  
- Present your proposed solution to the class. Discuss alternative solutions with other students and with the instructor.


#### Task 2: Reviewing an Exchange Online configuration in an Office 365 tenant
  

1.  Switch to **LON-CL1**.
2.  Sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
3.  Open Microsoft Edge and navigate to **portal.office.com**.
4.  Sign in with **beth@adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**. With the password you create in Module 1 Lab A.

    >**Note:** If Stay signed in? page appears click **No**.

5.  Open the Microsoft 365 admin center.

    > **Note:** If you have trouble seeing the information in the portal, change the zoom settings for Edge to 75 percent.

6. Enter the password of your Office 365 administrator account, and then select **Sign in**.
7. To open the Microsoft 365 admin center, select the **Admin** app.

    > **Note:** If you have trouble seeing the information in the portal, change the zoom settings for Edge to 75 percent.

8. In the left navigation menu, click **Show all** select **Health**, and then select **Service Health**.
9. In the **Service health** window, confirm that the Exchange Online service status is **Service is healthy**.
10. In the left navigation menu, select **Settings**, and then select **Domains**.
11. On the **Domains** page, review the list of domain names. You should see at least one domain by default with the domain name **adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**. If a custom domain was added in an earlier lab, you will also see that domain in the list. For example, you might see **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** where yyxxxxx.hostdomain.com is the custom domain provided to you.
12. Select the **_adatumyyxxxxx_.onmicrosoft.com** domain. Note that there are no DNS records listed under the DNS settings section of the page.
13. To return to the **Domains** page, select **Close**.
14. In the **Domain name** list, select the custom domain that you added in Module 1 Lab A, such as **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**, where yyxxxxx is your unique lab number. Note the numerous DNS records listed under **Required DNS settings** on the custom domain's property page.
15. On the **domain property** page, locate and expand the **Exchange Online** section.
16. Review the records listed. You should see at least three record types: MX, TXT, and CNAME. Note that the Points to address or value for all three records are in the outlook.com namespace that Microsoft manages.

    >**Note:** In a hybrid deployment, you do not want to create the canonical name (CNAME) record that points to Exchange Online for client Autodiscover until all users have been moved to Exchange Online. However, you must add the MX record and/or TXT SPF record based on the hybrid transport routing decisions that you make.

17. To return to the **Domains** page, select **Close**.
18. In the left navigation menu, select **Admin centers**, and then to open the Exchange admin center, select **Exchange**.
19. In the left navigation menu, select **Permissions**.
20. In the **admin roles** list, double-click **Organization Management**.
21. On the **Organization Management** page, scroll down to the **Members** section. Note that by default only the **Company Administrator** has the Organization Management role.
22. To return to the **admin roles** list, select **Cancel**.
23. Double-click the **Compliance Management** admin role.
24. Are there any default members of this group? 
25. To return to the admin roles list, select **Cancel**.

    > **Note:** The answer is no by default. In fact, in Exchange Online, no other admin roles have members by default. You must add administrators before they can perform their expected tasks in Exchange Online, even if they were members of the same admin roles on-premises.

26. In the left navigation menu, select **organization**.
27. Review the default settings in the **sharing** tab. 

    > **Note** There is no organization relationship set up. However, there is a Default Sharing Policy. By running the Hybrid Configuration wizard, you can create an organization relationship so that individual users do not have to manage sharing free/busy information with other users cross-premises.

28. In the left navigation menu, select **mail flow**.
29. On the **mail flow** page, select the **accepted domains** tab. Note the **Accepted Domain** and **Domain type** fields for each domain in the list. These domain types are added automatically when you add a custom domain to your Office 365 tenant.
30. Double-click the custom domain in the list, such as **adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**.
31. Point the mouse to the **Accept mail for all subdomains** option to view the description. This option is helpful if your organization uses multiple email addresses based on subdomains and you don't want to provision each one of them as a custom domain. Examples are **@emea.adatum.com**, **@na.adatum.com**, and **@apac.adatum.com**.

    > **Note:** You would use the Internal Relay type if an organization subscribes to EOP only to protect their on-premises mail system.

32. To discard changes and return to **mail flow** page, select **Cancel**.
33. On the **mail flow** page, select the **connectors** tab. Note that there are no connectors by default.
34. Select **New** (plus icon), and then in the **From** field, select the **down arrow**.
35. From the list, select **Your organization's email server**.
36. From the **To** field drop-down list, select **Office 365**. Review the description of this mail flow scenario.
37. Change the **From** field to **Office 365**.
38. Change the **To** field to **Your organization's email server**. Review the description of this scenario.
39. To return to **mail flow** page, select **Cancel**.

    > **Note:** By running the Hybrid Configuration wizard, you can create the connectors in Exchange Online as well as the connectors for the on-premises Exchange Servers.

40. In the left navigation menu, select **unified messaging**. Review the notice that this feature will be retired in February of 2020. This feature will be replaced by Cloud Voicemail and the Auto Attendant service in Azure.
41. In the left navigation pane, select **hybrid**. Note that you can access the Hybrid Configuration wizard web app here in Office 365. The same option is available in Exchange Server 2016 or newer on-premises.
42. Close Microsoft Edge.
43. Select **Close all**.

#### Task 3: Prepare the Exchange on-premises environment
  

>**Note:** The steps you perform in this task customize your Exchange on-premises environment to use the unique**adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com** name that was provided to you. You must substitute your unique domain name for **adatumyyxxxxx** and the lab hosting provider's domain for **hostdomain.com**.

>**Note:** Before you complete this lab task, verify that all Exchange services are running as expected.


1.  On **LON-EX1** sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the password**Pa55w.rd**.
2.  Open the MMC console and add the Certificates snap-in for the Local Computer.
3.  In the MMC console window, under Console Root, expand **Certificates (Local Computer)**, expand **Personal**, and select the **Certificates** folder.
4.  Confirm if there is a wildcard certificate in the list, for example **_\*.hostdomain.com_**, and then close the MMC console window.

    > **Note:** Document the certificate name as you may need it later.

5.  On the task bar, click **File Explorer** and then browse to **C:\Labfiles\Mod03**.
6.  Right-click **PrepExch-WildcardCert.txt**, select **Rename**, change the file extension from .txt to **.ps1**, press Enter, and when prompted to confirm the change select **Yes**.
7.  In **File Explorer** right-click **PrepExch-WildcardCert.ps1** and select **Edit**.
8.  In the **Windows PowerShell ISE** window select**Run Script** (green play button).
9.  Wait for the domain customization to complete. When prompted, press Enter to restart.
10.  After the computer restarts, sign back in as Adatum\Administrator.
11.  On **LON-DS1** sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
12.  On the task bar, open **File Explorer** and browse to **C:\Labfiles\Mod03**.
13.  Right-click **ADFS.txt**, select **Rename**, change the file extension from .txt to **.ps1**, press Enter, and then when prompted to confirm the change, select **Yes**.
14.  Right click **ADFS.ps1** and select **Edit**.
15.  In the **Windows PowerShell ISE** window select **Run Script** (green play button).
16.  In the Windows PowerShell credential request dialog box type **Pa55w.rd** for the password and select **OK**.
17.  Wait for the AD FS configuration to complete.

    > **Note:** You can safely disregard the SSL warnings.

18.  When prompted to restart **LON-DS1**, press Enter. After it restarts, sign in as **Adatum\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
19.  On **LON-WAP1**, sign in as **Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.
20.  On the task bar, open **File Explorer** and browse to **C:\Labfiles\Mod03**.
21.  Right-click **WAP.txt**, select **Rename**, change the file extension from .txt to **.ps1**, press Enter, and then when prompted to confirm the change, select **Yes**.
22.  Right click **WAP.ps1** and select **Edit**.
23.  In the **Windows PowerShell ISE** window select**Run Script** (green play button).
24.  On the **Windows PowerShell credential request** dialog box leave the username as **Adatum\administrator**, in the **Password** field type **Pa55w.rd**, and then select **OK**.
25.  Wait for the WAP configuration to complete.

    > **Note:** You can safely disregard the SSL warning.

26.  Close the **Windows PowerShell ISE** window.


#### Task 4: Prepare for the next module
  
- When you are finished with the lab, keep all virtual machines running. The next lab/module require the virtual machines in their current state.


### Review question(s)
 
**Question** 

Which setting do you need to configure to prevent all users from editing their own phone numbers and addresses?

**Question** 

What are some ways by which you can confirm that a hybrid deployment has the proper configuration?


©2019 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
