# Module 2: Deploying and configuring directory synchronization
# Lab: Administering directory synchronization, users, and groups in an Office 365 hybrid environment
  
### Scenario
  Now that the Office 365 tenant is configured and ready for deployment, you are ready to establish directory synchronization and start creating user and group accounts in Office 365 by synchronizing them from your on-premises Active Directory. You and your team should be familiar with how to configure these accounts by using the Microsoft 365 Admin center, because this will be your primary tool for managing the environment after the pilot is fully functional. Additionally, you must ensure that directory synchronization is enabled and that the password policy for Office 365 users matches the password policy for on-premises users. You also want to take advantage of the benefits of Azure AD, such as self-service password reset with writeback functionality.


### Objectives
  After completing this lab, you will be able to:

- Configure Azure AD Connect.
- Manage Office 365 users and groups by using AD DS tools and the Microsoft 365 admin center.
- Manage password policies.

> **Note:** The lab steps for this course change frequently due to updates to Office 365. Microsoft Worldwide Learning updates the lab steps frequently, so they are not available in this manual. Your instructor will provide you with the lab documentation.

### Lab setup
  Estimated time: 60 minutes

Virtual machines: **10984A-LON-DC1**, **10984A-LON-DS1**, **10984A-LON-WAP1**, and **10984A-LON-CL1**

Username: **Adatum\\Administrator**, **LON-WAP1\Administrator \(only for LON-WAP1\)**

Password: **Pa55w.rd**

In all tasks:

- Where you see references to **Adatum*YYXXXX*.onmicrosoft.com**, replace **Adatum*YYXXXX*** with your unique Office 365 name displayed in the online lab portal.
- Where you see references to **Adatum*YYXXXX*.hostdomain.com**, replace **Adatum*YYXXXX*** with your unique hostdomain.com name displayed in the online lab portal.

> **Note:** When you connect to the Microsoft 365 admin center, you might be prompted to provide an authentication phone and authentication email address. If you see this window, click **Cancel**.

This lab requires the following virtual machines:

- **LON-DC1**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-DS1**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-WAP1**

  - Sign in as **LON-WAP1\\Administrator** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

- **LON-CL1**

  - Sign in as **Adatum\\Beth** with the password **Pa55w.rd**.

> **Note:** Please note, at the time of this course's development, Microsoft was rebranding the Office 365 Admin center. In most instances, the Office 365 Admin center now is called the Microsoft 365 admin center. However, you may encounter instances of Office 365 Admin center in this course, particularly in the user interface in labs. Don't assume you're in the wrong portal if you encounter instances of Office 365 Admin center. For this course, the two names refer to the same admin center.


## Exercise 1: Preparing the directory and configuring Azure AD Connect
  
### Scenario
  Before you can configure directory synchronization, the team needs to run several checks, which include looking for duplicate accounts, filtering the directory, and configuring UPNs. When the environment is prepared for directory synchronization, the next step is to install and configure the Azure AD Connect tool and then configure an initial synchronization.


The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Configure UPNs on AD DS accounts
2.  Use the IdFix tool to identify and troubleshoot issues
3.  Download and install Azure AD Connect
4.  Configure directory synchronization with Azure AD Connect
5.  Verify synchronization results


#### Task 1: Configure UPNs on AD DS accounts

1.  On **LON-DC1**, from **Server Manager**, open **Active Directory Domains and Trusts**, and then add **Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com** as an alternate UPN suffix.
2.  Open Windows PowerShell and update the UPN for every user in AD DS with **"\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com"** for the domain name. To do this, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-ADUser -Filter * -Properties SamAccountName | foreach {Set-ADUser $_ -UserPrincipalName ($_.SamAccountName + "@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com" )}
  ```

3.  On **LON-DC1**, set the execution policy in Windows PowerShell to **Unrestricted**, change the path to **C:\\labfiles\\**, and then run the **.\\CreateProblemUsers.ps1** Windows PowerShell script. Before doing that, in File Explorer, navigate to folder C:\\labfiles\\ and change the extension of CreateProblemUsers.txt file to CreateProblemUsers.ps1.

4.  This script will make following changes in AD DS:

  - Klemen Sic. Adds the at sign (\@) to the beginning of **"adatum"** for the **UserPrincipalName** attribute.
  - Lara Raisic. Replaces the existing string with "**lara\@adatum.com**" for the **EmailAddress** attribute.
  - Logan Boyle. Replaces the existing string with **"lara\@adatum.com"** for the **EmailAddress** attribute.
  - Holly Spencer. Replaces the existing string with **"Holly \@adatum.com"** for the **EmailAddress** attribute.
  - Maj Hojski. Replaces the existing string with **" "** for the **emailAddress** attribute.


#### Task 2: Use the IdFix tool to identify and troubleshoot issues

1.  On **LON-CL1**, download the Office 365 IdFix Directory Synchronization Error Remediation Tool from **https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=36832**.
2.  Extract the files to **C:\\Deployment Tools\\IdFix**, and then run **IdFix.exe** as**Adatum\\Administrator** with the password of **Pa55w.rd**.
3.  In the IdFix tool, select **Query**, and then sort the errors by the **ERROR** column.
4.  On the **Actions** menu, select **Edit** for each of the following objects, and then select **Apply**:

  - Klemen Sic
  - Holly Spencer
  - Maj Hojski

5.  Review the log file found at **C:\\Deployment Tools\\IdFix**.
6.  Switch back to the IdFix tool, and then select **Query**.
7.  Sort the errors by the **UPDATE** column, and then for Maj Holjski and Logan Boyle, replace the **mail** attribute with the appropriate string.
8.  On the **Actions** menu, select **Edit**, and then verify the following objects:

  - Logan Boyle. The **mail** attribute should be **"logan\@adatum.com"**.
  - Maj Hojski. The **mail** attribute should be **"maj\@adatum.com"**.

9.  Select **Apply**, and then select **Query**.
10.  Verify that errors were corrected.


#### Task 3: Download and install Azure AD Connect
  

1.  Sign in to **LON-DS1** with the following credentials:

  - Username: **Adatum\\Administrator**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.  Open Internet Explorer, and then from the **Tools** menu, open **Internet Options** and then configure the **Internet** security zone to allow file downloads.
3.  Navigate to **https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=47594**.
4.  Download and install **Azure AD Connect**. On the **Express Settings** page, select **Customize**.
5.  Leave the **Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect** wizard open for the next task.

> **Note:** Alternatively, you can search for Microsoft Azure Active Directory Connect in the Microsoft Download Center and download it from there.


#### Task 4: Configure directory synchronization with Azure AD Connect
 
1.  On **LON-DS1**, complete the configuration of Azure AD Connect with the following settings:

  - Install required components: all check boxes clear
  - User sign in: **select Password Hash Synchronization**
  - Username: **Beth\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com**
  - Password: The password you created in Module 1
  - Connect your directories: Click **Add Directory** and then create a new AD account with the following credentials:

    - Enterprise Admin UserName: **Adatum\\Administrator**
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

  - **Continue without matching all UPN suffixes to verified domains**
  - Domain and OU filtering: Select only the **IT OU**.

2.  On the **Optional features** page, select **Exchange hybrid deployment**, **Password hash synchronization**, and **Passwordwriteback**.
3.  On the **Ready to configure** page, select the **Start the synchronization process when configuration completes** option.

  > **Note:** The installation process will take approximately 10 minutes to complete.

4.  Sign out of **LON-DS1**, and then sign back in as **Adatum\\Administrator**.
5.  On **LON-DS1**, select **Start**, open the **Azure AD Connect** folder, and then select **Synchronization Service**.
6.  In Synchronization Service Manager on LON-DS1, select the **Connectors** tab.
7.  On the **Connectors** tab, double-click**Adatum.com**.
8.  In the **Properties** dialog box, select **Configure Directory Partitions**.
9.  Select **Containers**.
10.  In the **Credentials** dialog box, enter the following credentials, and then select **OK**:

  - Username: **Administrator**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
  - Domain: **Adatum.com**

  > **Note:** Although this account is not the one used for directory synchronization, you temporarily use the account credentials to access AD DS for configuring filtering.

11.  In the **Select Containers** dialog box, select the **Research** check box, verify that **IT** is selected, and then select **OK**.
12.  Select **OK** to close the **Properties** window.


#### Task 5: Verify synchronization results
  
1.  Ensure that you are signed in to **LON-DS1** with the following credentials:

  - Username: **Adatum\\Administrator**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**

2.  On the **Start** menu, open**Synchronization Service** from the **Azure AD Connect** folder.
3.  Verify that the last synchronization time aligns with the initiation time from the last exercise.
4.  Open Windows PowerShell, and then install the MSOnline module, and connect to the MsolService by using the onmicrosoft credentials for Beth Burke.
5.  Verify the time stamp of the last synchronization in the previous task.
6.  Open Internet Explorer and browse to **https://portal.office.com/admin/default.aspx**
7.  Open the Microsoft 365 admin center, and sign in as Beth Burke with the onmicrosoft credentials.
8.  Expand Health, and then select **Directory Sync Status**, verify that the last directory sync was performed within the last hour.
9.  Verify that the user accounts from the OUs selected in the last tasks now have a status of **Synced with Active Directory**.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, the students should have successfully deployed Azure AD Connect and configured directory synchronization.


## Exercise 2: Manage Office 365 users and groups with a GUI and Windows PowerShell
  
### Scenario
Now that directory synchronization is in place and working, you need to identify how managing user and group accounts has changed with directory synchronization, how you can manage user licenses in Office 365, and how you can use PowerShell to manage the objects in your Office 365 tenant.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Create a new user and a new group account in AD DS
2.  Move a user in and out of the scope of synchronization
3.  Manage user licenses for Office 365
4.  Create and manage users and assign licenses by using Windows PowerShell


#### Task 1: Create a new user and a new group account in AD DS
 
1.  On **LON-DC1**, use Active Directory Users and Computers to create the following user in the **Research** OU:

  - First name: **Perry**
  - Last name: **Brill**
  - User logon name: **Perry\@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**
  - Password: **Pa55w.rd**
  - User must change password at next logon: Not selected
  - E-mail: **Perry\@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com**

2.  Use Active Directory Users and Computers to create the following group in the **Research** OU:

  - Group name: **Project Team**
  - Group scope: **Universal**
  - Group type: **Security**
  - E-mail: **projectteam\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.hostdomain.com**
  - Members: **Arturs Priede**
    **August Towle**
    **Cai Chu**


#### Task 2: Move a user in and out of the scope of synchronization
  
1.  On **LON-DS1**, open Windows PowerShell and run the following command to verify that **Vera Pace** is an Office 365 user:

  ```
  Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Initial
 
  Get-MsolUser -SearchString Vera
  ```

2.  On **LON-DC1**, in Active Directory Users and Computers, move **Vera Pace** from the **Research** OU to the **Sales** OU.
3.  On **LON-DC1**, use Active Directory Users and Computers to move the user **Ada Russell** to the **Research** OU.
4.  On **LON-DC1**, use Active Directory Users and Computers to remove these users from the **Research** group:

  - **Claire Roberson**
  - **Connie Vaughn**
  - **Esther Wiggins**

5.  On **LON-DS1**, use Windows PowerShell to force an unscheduled, delta directory synchronization.
6.  To verify the new user you created, on **LON-CL1**, open Microsoft Edge, in the address bar, type **https://portal.office.com/adminportal/home** to open the Microsoft 365 admin center.
7.  Sign in using the following credentials, replacing *yyxxxxx* with your unique Adatum number:

  - Username: **Beth\@Adatumyyxxxxx.onmicrosoft.com**
  - Password: The password you created in Module 1, "Introduction to Office 365 administration and licensing"

8.  Click **Admin**.
9.  In the Microsoft 365 admin center, in the navigation pane, select **Users**, and then select **ActiveUsers**.
10.  In the **Active Users** list, select **Perry Brill**.
11.  Next to **Contact information**, select **Edit**.
12.  Verify that the message "This user is synchronized with your local Active Directory" appears, and then close the dialog box.
13.  Next to the **Product licenses** section, select **Edit**.
14.  On the **Product licenses** page, in the **Location** menu, select **United States**, and then select the icon next to **Office 365 Enterprise E5**.
15.  Select **Save**, and then select **Close** twice.
16.  Repeat the previous steps to assign the Office 365 license for user **Ada Russell**.
17.  To verify that you created the new group, in the Office 365 Admin center, in the navigation pane, select **Groups**, and then select **Groups**.
18.  In the **Groups** list, verify that**Project Team** appears.

  > **Note:** You might need to wait up to 10 minutes before the group appears. Refresh the list until you see the object.

19.  In the **Groups** list, select the **Project Team** group.

  > **Note:** Notice that**Edit Members** is unavailable. This is because group membership is maintained by AD DS. To view the membership, you need to use Windows PowerShell.

20.  On **LON-DS1**, in Windows PowerShell, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolGroup
  ```

21.  Verify that you see the **Research** and **Project Team** groups. Copy the **ObjectID** value for the Research group.
22.  To verify that you updated the group membership in AD DS, type the following command at the Windows PowerShell prompt, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolGroupMember -GroupObjectId <ObjectID for Research group>
  ```

  > **Note**: Replace \<ObjectID for Research group\> with Object ID you have noted in previous step.

23.  Verify that the membership of the group does not contain the users removed in AD DS. The users who were removed from the group are:

  - **Claire Roberson**
  - **Connie Vaughn**
  - **Esther Wiggins**

24.  To verify that you moved the user **Vera Pace** out of the scope of synchronization, type the following command at the Windows PowerShell prompt, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -SearchString Vera
  ```


#### Task 3: Manage user licenses for Office 365
  
1.  On **LON-CL1**, use the Microsoft 365 admin center to enable the Office 365 Enterprise E5 license for Abbi Skinner. Set the location for Abbi Skinner to the United States.
2.  Disable the **Microsoft Teams**, **Sway**, and **Flow for Office 365** features for Ada Russell.


#### Task 4: Create and manage users and assign licenses by using Windows PowerShell
  
1.  On **LON-DS1**, at the Windows PowerShell Command Prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Connect-MsolService
  ```

2.  In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, sign in as**Beth\@Adatum*yyxxxxx*.onmicrosoft.com** (where *yyxxxxx* is your unique Adatum number) by using Beth's password.
3.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** is your unique domain name. Provide a password that meets the complexity requirements:

  ```
  New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -DisplayName "Catherine Richard" -FirstName "Catherine" -LastName "Richard" -Password 'Provide a password' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "US"
  ```

4.  At the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** is your unique domain name. Provide a password that meets the complexity requirements:

  ```
  New-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName tameka@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -DisplayName "Tameka Reed" -FirstName "Tameka" -LastName "Reed" -Password 'Provide a password' -ForceChangePassword $false -UsageLocation "US"
  ```

5.  To determine which users are unlicensed, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -UnlicensedUsersOnly
  ```

6.  To view the available licenses, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolAccountSku
  ```

7.  To license Catherine Richard, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. Replace **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** in the -**AddLicenses** attribute with the unique**onmicrosoft.com** domain name prefix:

  ```
  Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -AddLicenses "Adatumyyxxxxx:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
  ```

8.  To license **Tameka Reed**, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. Replace **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** in the -**AddLicenses** attribute with the **onmicrosoft.com** domain name:

  ```
  Set-MsolUserLicense -UserPrincipalName Tameka@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -AddLicenses "Adatumyyxxxxx:ENTERPRISEPREMIUM"
  ```

9.  To prevent a user from signing in, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. Adatum*yyxxxxx* is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -BlockCredential $true
  ```

10.  To delete a user, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. Adatum*yyxxxxx* is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Remove-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -Force
  ```

11.  To view the **Deleted Users** list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
  ```

12.  Verify that **Catherine Richard** is in the list of deleted users. Note that it specifies that she is still licensed.
13.  To restore a deleted user, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter. Adatum*yyxxxxx* is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Restore-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com
  ```

14.  To view the deleted users list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser -ReturnDeletedUsers
  ```

15.  Verify that **Catherine Richard** is no longer in the list of deleted users.
16.  To view the active users list, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter:

  ```
  Get-MsolUser
  ```

17.  Verify that **Catherine Richard** is in the active users list.
18.  To allow a user to sign in, at the command prompt, type the following command, and then press Enter; **Adatum*yyxxxxx*** is your unique domain name:

  ```
  Set-MsolUser -UserPrincipalName Catherine@Adatumyyxxxxx.hostdomain.com -BlockCredential $false
  ```

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, the students should have successfully managed Office 365 users by using a GUI and PowerShell.


## Exercise 3: Manage Office 365 password policies and self-service password reset
  
### Scenario
  Your organization has configured a password policy for on-premises users. The password policy requires users to create a complex password and to change their passwords every 60 days, and it prevents users from reusing 15 passwords that they have used before. You need to ensure that the password policy for the pilot users in Office 365 matches the policy for on-premises users and report any settings that cannot be configured to match. Also, you want your users to be able to use self-service password reset from Office 365 and to write back passwords to the on-premises AD DS.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1.  Configure a password policy in Office 365 and enable self-service password reset
2.  Validate the self-service password reset functionality


#### Task 1: Configure a password policy in Office 365 and enable self-service password reset
  
1.  On **LON-CL1**, use the Microsoft 365 admin center to set passwords to expire after 60 days with a notification period of 14 days.
2.  Open the Azure Active Directory admin center and enroll for a trial subscription to Azure AD Premium.
3.  From the Dashboard, run the self-service password reset wizard. Create a group named **SingleSignOn** and add**Abbi Skinner** as a member.


#### Task 2: Validate the self-service password reset functionality
  
1.  Go to **https://myapps.microsoft.com**.
2.  Sign in as **Abbi\@yourdomain.hostdomain.com** with the password**Pa55w.rd**.
3.  Click **verify now** and then set up your mobile phone and email address for verification.
4.  In your profile, set up self- service password reset.
5.  Choose to change the password for Abbi by using the Azure profile UI, and then change the password to **Moc1984A**.
6.  On **LON-DS1**, in Windows PowerShell force directory synchronization by using the **Start-ADSyncSyncCycle -PolicyType Delta** cmdlet.
7.  Try to sign in to **LON-CL1** as**Adatum\\Abbi** by using the old password of**Pa55w.rd**. Verify that the sign-in attempt fails.
8.  Try to sign in to **LON-CL1** as**Adatum\\Abbi** by using the new password of**Moc10984A**, and verify that it works.

> **Result**: After completing this exercise, the students should have successfully configured password policies and self-service password reset.



### Review question(s)
  

**Question** 

When a user resets the password by using the Azure AD profile page, what should you enable to maintain password consistency in Azure AD and AD DS?

**Question** 

If you implement directory synchronization with password synchronization between AD DS and Azure AD, which system authenticates the users when they access services such as Office 365?


©2018 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.

  
